当翻訳は仮訳であり、正確には原文を参照してください。                                        仮訳
Please refer to the original text for accuracy.
                                                         Provisional Translation




                AI Guidelines for Business
                          Ver1.1
                                         April 4, 2025


          Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications
             Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
Contents
Preface ....................................................................................................2
Part 1 Definitions ........................................................................................9
Part 2 Society to aim for with AI, and matters each AI business actor works on ............. 11
  A. Basic philosophies ............................................................................... 11
  B. Principles ......................................................................................... 12
  C. Common Guiding Principles .................................................................... 13
  D. Common Guiding Principles for AI Business actors involved in advanced AI systems .. 24
  E. Building AI governance .......................................................................... 26
Part 3 Matters Related to AI Developers ............................................................ 28
Part 4 Matters Related to AI Providers .............................................................. 33
Part 5 Matters Related to AI Business Users ........................................................ 36




                                                     1
Preface
  Technologies related to AI (Artificial Intelligence) are constantly evolving, opportunities to use
AI and its various possibilities have been increasing continuously, and AI is being used for making
industrial innovations and solving social challenges as well. In addition, interactive generative AI
has recently appeared leading to AI democratization, which has made it easy for many people to
use AI for various purposes through dialogues. Therefore, companies have been making efforts
to not only incorporate AI into their business processes but also reconstruct their business models
themselves based on the values that will be created by AI. Some private individuals have also
increased their efforts to apply their knowledge to AI and enhance their productivity. Japan has
been promoting Society 5.0, a concept of a human-centric society in which both economic growth
and solutions for social challenges are achieved through a system that merges the cyberspace
and physical space in an advanced way, called a “Cyber-Physical System” (CPS). To embody this
concept and enable the society to accept AI and use it appropriately, “Social Principles of Human-
Centric AI” was established in March 2019. Meanwhile, risks have been increasing as the scope of
use of AI technologies and the users have been increasing. Generative AI, especially, has incurred
new societal risks that are not carried by conventional AI, such as infringements of intellectual
property rights and generation and transmission of disinformation or misinformation, leading to
the diversification and increase of societal risks resulting from AI.

  Against this background, the Guidelines present unified guiding principles in AI governance in
Japan to promote safe and secure use of AI. It is intended to help people who use AI in various
businesses to fully recognize AI risks based on international trends and stakeholders’ concerns,
and to voluntarily take the necessary countermeasures across the entire lifecycle. The Guidelines
aim to actively and cooperatively develop a framework that achieves both promotion of
innovation and reduction of risks across the lifecycle through mutual cooperation among
interested parties in implementing the common guiding principles, important matters for each
AI business actor, and AI governance.

   Japan led discussions held at international forums, such as the G7, G20, and OECD, and made
a lot of contributions, starting with the proposal for the AI R&D Principles at the G7 ICT Ministers’
Meeting in Takamatsu, Kagawa, in April 2016. Incidentally, the following matters have been
pointed out regarding the actual implementation of the principles in AI:
      AI use is viewed as a solution to some social challenges, such as decreasing labor caused
       by a declining birthrate and aging population.
      There is a time lag between formulation and enforcement of laws and the speed and
       complexity of AI technology development and social implementation.
      Rule-based regulations that stipulate detailed obligations might inhibit innovations.
Thus, it was decided to draw up guidelines on the basis of the goal-based concept that would
lead to the achievement of purposes through soft laws without any legally binding force that
would encourage interested parties to make voluntary efforts to reduce societal risks in AI and
promote innovations and use of AI.

  On this understanding, the “Draft AI R&D Guidelines for International Discussions” and “AI
Utilization Guidelines: Practical Reference for AI Utilization” were established and announced on
the initiative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, and “Governance Guidelines
for Implementation of AI Principles ver. 1.1” were established and announced on the initiative of
the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. And this occasion, by integrating and modifying
those three guidelines, the Guidelines (soft laws without any legally binding force) were newly
established to help business operators cooperate to conduct social implementation of AI and
governance in it, reflecting the features of AI technologies that had further advanced in recent
years, and the domestic and international discussions about social implementation of AI. (See
“Figure 1. Positioning of the Guidelines.”) It is intended to help business operators (including


                                                 2
public institutions such as governments and municipalities) who use AI by referring to the
Guidelines instead of the existing guidelines to understand the guiding principles that lead to
desirable actions for safe and secure use of AI. The Guidelines are established through studies
conducted by multiple stakeholders that consisted of academic and research institutions, civil
societies including general consumers, private sector companies, and the like, rather than having
the government take the initiative alone, to prioritize effectiveness and validity.

        Social Principles of Human-Centric AI                                                       Foundation

                  ✓ Consists of basic philosophies, visions, and social
                    principles of AI that society should pay close attention to.
                  ✓ Describes that business operators should establish and
                    observe the “R&D and Utilization Principles of AI.”

       Corresponds to a reference document for establishing
              “R&D and Utilization Principles of AI”


                    AI R&D Guidelines
      ✓ Contains the AI R&D Principles to pay close attention to
                                                                                   Integration/                             AI Guidelines
        during AI system development and the descriptions of                         Review                                 for Business
        the principles.

                AI Utilization Guidelines
      ✓ Contains the AI Utilization Principles which are expected
                                                                                                   Consideration
        to be paid close attention to during use and the
        descriptions of the principles.

            Governance Guidelines for                                                         Trends in foreign countries
          Implementation of AI Principles                                                         Appearance of new
                                                                                                    technologies
     ✓ Presents the action goals to be achieved by AI companies
       and describes virtual examples for the implementation in
       order to support the implementation of AI principles
       necessary for promoting the social implementation of AI.


                                                 Figure 1. Positioning of the Guidelines


  The use of AI might incur a great risk to society depending on the field and how it is used, and
social disagreement caused by this risk might inhibit AI use itself. On the other hand, taking too
many measures might inhibit AI use itself or decrease the benefits of using AI. Therefore, it’s
important to take a risk-based approach in which we estimate the level of risks (impact and
probability of hazards) that can be entailed by how it is used in the applicable field beforehand,
to ensure the degree of measures taken are appropriate to the level of risks. The Guidelines
provide the guides to the measures to be taken by companies based on a risk-based approach.
Note that the concept of a risk-based approach has been commonly adopted by countries with
advanced AI.

   Trends in AI are constantly changing, so it is planned that the Guidelines will be updated as a
living document as needed, also in response to international discussions, with the multiple
stakeholder engagement while reflecting the agile governance philosophy to continuously
improve AI governance1. In such activities, it will be determined how the guiding principles and
implementation should be updated as the countermeasures against risks in accordance with
maturity of AI in the society. (See “Figure 2. Basic concepts of the Guidelines.”)




1
 The report is compiled by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications’ conference toward AI Network Society and the
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Study Group on AI Business Guidelines. The review system will be determined and
modified as appropriate in line with future circumstances.

                                                                                    3
Concepts
                           Support
                        for voluntary                              Coordination
                                                                                                               Understand-
                          efforts by                                    with
                                                                                                                ability for
                          business                                 international
                                                                                                                 readers
                          operators                                discussions

               Show directions for AI business          Ensure consistency with trends and          Readers can check risks and handling
               actors founded on the risk-based         contents of domestic and overseas           policies that should be considered
               approach where the degree of             relevant principles.                        regarding AI, for each of AI developers,
               measures should be                                                                   AI providers, and AI business users.
               proportionate to the level and
               probability of risks.

Processes                                                     Multiple stakeholders
                 Established through studies conducted by multiple stakeholders that consisted of academic and research institutions,
               civil societies including general consumers, private sector companies, and the like, to prioritize effectiveness and validity.


                                                                 Living Document
                    To continuously improve AI governance, updated as needed while reflecting the agile governance philosophy.


                                  Figure 2. Basic concepts of the Guidelines


   The Guidelines present basic concepts regarding efforts necessary for the development,
provision, and use of AI. Therefore, for the actual development, provision, and use of AI, it is
important that all business operators who intend to use AI will voluntarily promote specific
efforts using the Guidelines as one of their references. At the same time, all business operators
who intend to use AI should recognize the magnitude of AI’s impact on society and be conscious
of using it to develop human society better. It is important that the business operators pay close
attention that if society considers the efforts to be inappropriate or insufficient, it might lead
to opportunity losses in their businesses and it might become difficult to maintain business
values. Paying close attention to these possibilities enables to maximize the benefits from AI,
strengthen competitiveness, and maintain and improve the business values. Incidentally, because
the Guidelines contain reference information for AI use and risk information, it is also helpful for
people who are not business operators relevant to AI, for example, staff of academic and research
institutions and general consumers (including minors).

  The Guidelines are intended for all AI business actors (including public institutions such as
governments and municipalities) who develop, provide, or use AI in various businesses. On the
other hand, the Guidelines are not intended for those who use AI for non-business activities and
those who derive benefits from AI systems and services without directly using AI for business and,
in some cases, sustain damage (hereinafter, both are referred to as “non-business users”).
However, necessary points for those who develop, provide, or use AI for business purposes to
serve non-business users are included in this guideline. Data is dispensable for AI to learn. Specific
companies and individuals (hereinafter referred to as “data providers”) who provide such data
are similarly not included in the target of this guideline. This guideline assumes those who
develop, provide or use AI are themselves responsible for those data as data holders.
   As described above, the parties that the Guidelines are intended for are roughly grouped under
“AI developers,” “AI providers,” and “AI business users” as AI business actors who conduct AI
businesses and are defined herein. It is assumed that these AI business actors are business
operators (or departments of business operators), and a business operator might take on two or




                                                                   4
more roles as an AI developer, AI provider, and AI business user depending on the AI use method.
(See “Figure 3. Correlation between AI business actor and general AI use flow.”)2 3


        AI developer
         Business operators who develop AI systems (including business operators who research AI).
         They develop AI models as well as algorithms and contribute to construction of AI systems
         including AI models, base system, as well as I/O functions via data collection (including
         purchase), data preprocessing, training with data.

        AI provider
         Business operators who incorporate AI systems into applications, products, or existing
         systems, business processes, etc., and provide them to AI business users and, in some
         cases, non-business users as services.
         They verify AI systems, integrate AI systems with other systems, provide AI systems and
         services, offer operation support for AI business users on AI systems for normal operations,
         or perform the AI service operation itself. Communication with various stakeholders might
         be required during the provision of AI services.

        AI business user
         Business operators who use AI systems or AI services in their businesses.
         Their role is to use an AI system or AI service in an appropriate way intended by the AI
         provider, share information such as environmental changes with the AI provider, continue
         the normal operation, operate the provided AI system as necessary. In addition, when non-
         business users might be affected by AI use in some ways 4 , AI business users are also
         responsible for making efforts to prevent AI from incurring unexpected disadvantages for
         those non-business users and maximize benefits from AI.




2
  For points to note when general consumers use AI, particularly generative AI, please refer to the Consumer Affairs Agency’s
“AI Utilization Handbook - Generative AI Edition” (May 2024).
https://www.caa.go.jp/policies/policy/consumer_policy/information/ai_handbook
Furthermore, the current status, outlook, and challenges regarding digital technologies, including AI, that can be utilized to
support consumers are outlined in the Cabinet Office’s report by the “Expert Panel on Digital Technologies Empowering
Consumers.”
https://www.cao.go.jp/consumer/iinkaikouhyou/2024/doc/202412_digital_technology_houkoku.pdf
3
  Generative AI is included in the targets of the development, provision, and use of AI. If an AI provider or AI business user is a
public institution, such as a government or municipality, a concept different from that for private business operators might be
required.
4
 Non-business users need to pay close attention that they may suffer some type of damage if they do not follow the instructions
and precautions from AI business users.

                                                                5
             Figure 3. Correlation between AI business actor and general AI use flow

  It is important that each party clarifies “the efforts to be made regarding AI (guiding
principles = what)” based on “the ideal society while considering stakeholders’ expectations
(basic philosophies = why)” from each relevant perspective (AI developer, AI provider, or AI
business user). In addition, it is conceivable that studying, determining, and implementing “the
specific approach to be adopted (implementation = how)” to fulfill the guiding principles are
useful to use AI safely and securely. Actual AI systems and services can be used in various cases
depending on the purpose, used technology, data, usage environment, etc. Therefore, it is
important that AI developers, AI providers, and AI business users cooperate with each other to
devise the optimum approach while considering changes in the external environment, such as
the advancement of technologies. For the sake of readability, the main part of the Guidelines
covers the basic philosophies and guiding principles, and the appendix covers implementation.


  The structure of the main part of the Guidelines, which covers the basic philosophies and
guiding principles, is shown below:
     Part 1
      This part mainly describes definitions of terms to help understand the Guidelines.

     Part 2
      This part describes the society to aim for through AI use, the basic philosophies (why) and
      principles for realizing it, and the common guiding principles (what) among AI business
      actors. It also describes the establishment of governance required for implementing the
      common guiding principles considering the possibility of risks in AI to the society during
      the pursuit of benefits from AI use. Part 2 describes matters that form the base for Part 3
      and later parts, so it is important that all business operators who use AI read it and
      understand its descriptions.

     Parts 3 to 5
      These parts describe the precautions for each of the three AI business actors who conduct
      businesses using AI that are not mentioned in Part 2. It is important that each business
      operator who uses AI understands the precautions relevant to itself. In addition, it is also

                                               6
         important that each AI business actor understands the precautions for other AI business
         actors as well, because there are many matters relevant to adjacent AI business actors.
         (See “Figure 4. Structure of the Guidelines.”)




                                        Figure 4. Structure of the Guidelines


  For AI developers, AI providers, and AI business users, in addition to Parts 1 and 2, reading the
corresponding part among Parts 3 to 5 and the appendix will help them understand risks in AI use
and the basic concept of the policy for handling them. Because the examples described in the
appendix are helpful as references for business operators who have not determined any specific
efforts to make, it is important to chiefly read relevant contents in the appendix. For business
executive officers5, including management, to fulfill their duties, it is important to consider and
take countermeasures against risks in AI use together with the business strategy, in accordance
with the basic philosophies (why) and guiding principles (what) described in the Guidelines to
promote safe and secure AI use.

  The environment surrounding AI is rapidly advancing worldwide, so it is important that business
operators who intend to use AI pay attention to international trends. Under these circumstances,
Japan took the initiative in establishing an international common understanding on AI and its
guiding principles through the Hiroshima AI Process6 and took on the key role in the development
of the Hiroshima AI Process Comprehensive Policy Framework in December 2023.7 The Guidelines
5
  Business executive officers include those in public institutions such as governments and municipalities.
6
  Based on the result of the G7 Hiroshima Summit held in May 2023, the Hiroshima AI Process was initiated to study international
rules concerning generative AI. After that, the G7 Digital & Tech Minister Meeting was held in December 2023 based on the “G7
Leaders' Statement on the Hiroshima AI Process” announced after the Hiroshima AI Process Minister-level Meeting in September
2023 and the Multi-stakeholder High-level Meeting at Kyoto IGF in October. As the achievements of 2023, the “Hiroshima AI
Process Comprehensive Policy Framework” was formulated. Furthermore, in 2024, following the “G7 Ministers’ Meeting on
Industry, Technology, and Digital” in March and the “G7 Digital and Technology Ministers’ Meeting” in October, a “reporting
framework” concerning adherence to international codes of conduct was agreed upon by the G7 in December of the same year.
https://www.soumu.go.jp/hiroshimaaiprocess/
7
  GPAI (The Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence) is an international collaboration initiative established in 2020 with a
multi-stakeholder approach, including governments, international organizations, industry, experts, and civil society, aimed at
promoting the development and use of “responsible AI” based on a human-centered approach through project-based efforts.
In July 2024, GPAI transitioned to an integrated partnership with the OECD. To provide support in operations and management,
including projects related to generative AI, which also aid in advancing the Hiroshima AI Process, the “GPAI Tokyo Expert Support
Center” was established at the National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT) in July 2024. This



                                                                7
are also intended to contribute to the Process and have been established taking into account
international discussions including the Process. On the other hand, the policies and rules for AI
vary with country and region, so business operators who perform cross-border activities should
obey local laws and fulfill stakeholders’ expectations. As for advanced AI systems, especially,
some countries and regions take some measures to assure effective AI governance, for example,
establishing a safety framework of AI validation prior to their release to the market8, so it is
important to pay attention to them9.




center has conducted the SAFE Project (an exploration of practical approaches to ensuring the safety of generative AI) and
plans to implement new generative AI-related projects in consultation with the OECD.
https://www2.nict.go.jp/gpai-tokyo-esc/
8
  In November 2023, the UK announced a plan for founding the AI Safety Institute that would develop and perform evaluations
of advanced AI systems. The US announced that it would establish the US AI Safety Institute in the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST) to implement an AI risk management framework and evaluate red teaming. In the UK, the AI Safety
Institute was renamed the AI Security Institute in February 2025. In Japan, in collaboration with these overseas institutions,
the “AI Safety Institute” was established within the Information-technology Promotion Agency (IPA) on February 14, 2024, with
the cooperation of relevant ministries and agencies to consider standards and guidelines contributing to the safety improvement
of AI development, provision, and use, conduct surveys on AI safety evaluation methods, and investigate technologies and
examples related to AI safety. Activities include cross-walking this guideline with the US NIST AI Risk Management Framework
(RMF), publishing the “Guide on Evaluation Perspectives for AI Safety” (September 2024), collaborating and exchanging opinions
with AISI in various countries, and conducting various surveys.
https://aisi.go.jp/effort/effort_framework/guide_to_evaluation_perspective_on_ai_safety/
https://aisi.go.jp/
9
  On February 4, 2025, the interim report of the AI Strategy Council and AI Institutional Research Group was released.
(Japanese Only) https://www8.cao.go.jp/cstp/ai/interim_report.pdf


                                                                8
Part 1 Definitions

  The term “AI,” which means Artificial Intelligence, is said to first used at the Dartmouth
Conference in 1956 for the first time. Although there is no agreed definition of AI, as implied
from the fact that it is the abbreviation of “Artificial” and “Intelligence,” it refers to a computer
program that works in a similar way to human’s thinking process and a system that can make
intelligent decisions on a computer. In the past, some systems called “expert systems,” which
make inferences from a large amount of knowledge data that is input based on experts'
knowledge without machine learning (ML), were considered as a type of AI.
  However, in 2000s and later, deep learning emerged, and they used it for image recognition,
natural language processing (including translation), and speech recognition with machine
learning. And systems able to predict, propose or make decisions in specific areas are now called
AI. In addition, since 2021, foundation models 10 have appeared, prompting developments of
general-purpose AI, which is different from AI that specializes in a specific field. That led to not
only predictions, recommendations and decision making but also emergence of “generative AI”
of images, sentences and etc., which attracts attention of society as a whole. As described above,
there are many different types of AI, and it is difficult for even experts to predict the future of
AI technologies.

     With these circumstances, related terms in the Guidelines are defined as follows.


Related terms
        AI
         No agreed definition has been existed as of now (“Social Principles of Human-Centric AI”
         formulated by the Integrated Innovation Strategy Promotion Council on March 29, 2019),
         and it is difficult to strictly define artificial intelligence in a broad sense. AI in the
         Guidelines is an abstract concept, which includes AI systems (defined below) themselves
         or software or programs that perform machine learning.
         (For reference, it is defined in JIS X 22989:2023 based on ISO/IEC 22989:2022 as follows.)
         <Academic discipline> Research and development of mechanisms and applications of AI
         systems
         Note 1: Research and development can be conducted in several fields, including computer
         science, data science, natural science, human science, and mathematics.

        AI system
         A system (such as a machine, robot, and cloud system) that works at various levels of
         autonomy during the use process and incorporates a software element that has a learning
         function.
         (For reference, it is defined in JIS X 22989:2023 based on ISO/IEC 22989:2022 as follows.)
         An engineering system that produces outputs such as contents, predictions,
         recommendations, and decision-makings in response to a given set of goals defined by
         humans.
         Note 1: As for an engineering system, models that represent data, knowledge, processes,
         etc., that can be used to perform tasks can be developed using various techniques and
         approaches relevant to artificial intelligence.
         Note 2: An AI system is designed to work at various autonomous levels.
         (For reference, it is defined in the OECD AI Principles overview as follows.)
         An AI system is a machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, makes
         inferences. It generates outputs including predictions, contents, recommendations,

10
  Fundamental models typified by large language models are core technological foundations for creating individual models
that support various services. They have characteristics different from general AI from the viewpoints of development of models
adapted to a broad range of downstream tasks derived from a fundamental model and knowledge acquired through the
development process itself.

                                                              9
    decisions and so on to place impact on physical or virtual environments from received
    data. Different AI systems vary in their levels of autonomy and adaptiveness after
    deployment.

   Advanced AI system
    The most advanced AI systems including the cutting-edge foundation models and
    generative AI systems.
    (Quoted from the definition in the Hiroshima AI Process)

   AI model (ML model)
    A model incorporated into an AI system and acquired through machine learning using
    training data. It produces prediction results in accordance with the input data.
    (For reference, it is defined in JIS X 22989:2023 based on ISO/IEC 22989:2022 as follows.)
    A mathematical structure that produces inferences or predictions based on input data or
    information.
    Example: When a univariate linear function y = θ0 + θ1x is trained using the linear
    regression, the result model is y = 3 + 7x or the like.
    Note 1: A machine learning model is acquired as a result of training based on a machine
    learning algorithm.

   AI service
    A service that uses AI systems. It refers to providing AI business users with values in
    general. AI services are provided and operated through not only technologies that
    constitute an AI system, but also non-technological approaches, including monitoring by
    humans and appropriate communications with stakeholders.

   Generative AI
    A general term representing AI developed from an AI model that can generate texts,
    images, programs, etc.

   AI governance
    The design and operation of technological, organizational, and social systems by
    stakeholders for the purpose of managing risks posed by the use of AI at levels acceptable
    to stakeholders and maximizing their positive impact (benefit).




                                            10
Part 2 Society to aim for with AI, and matters each AI
business actor works on
  Part 2 describes “A. Basic philosophies” as the society to aim for with AI first. Next, it describes
“B. Principles” at which each AI business actor works on to realize the basic philosophies and “C.
Common Guiding Principles” that are derived from the principles. Furthermore, it describes “D.
Common Guiding Principles for AI Business actors involved in advanced AI systems,” which should
be followed by business operators involved in advanced AI systems. After that, it describes “E.
Building AI governance,” which is important for the implementation of “C. Common guiding
principles” and safe and secure use of AI.


A. Basic philosophies
  As described in the “Preface,” “Social Principles of Human-Centric AI” formulated by Japan in
March 2019 states that it is expected that AI will contribute to the creation of Society 5.0.
Additionally, the document states that it is important to use AI as a public asset of humans that
can lead to the achievement of global sustainability through qualitative changes of the ideal
society as well as true innovations. The document also states that the following three values
should be respected as basic philosophies in order to build a society that upholds such
philosophies.
    (1) Dignity: A society that has respect for human dignity
        Rather than building a society in which effectiveness and convenience are pursued
        through AI use to the point that humans become excessively dependent on AI and AI is
        used to control human behaviors, it is necessary to build a society that has respect for
        human dignity and for humans to take full advantage of AI as a tool to fully demonstrate
        their various capabilities. This will allow them to exert more creativity or engage in
        more challenging jobs and live physically and mentally rich lives.

    (2) Diversity & Inclusion: A society where people with diverse backgrounds
         can pursue their own well-being
         One of the present-day ideals and big challenges is the creation of a society in which
         people with diverse backgrounds, values, or ways of thinking can seek different well-
         being, so they can be flexibly included and new values can be created. Powerful AI
         technologies can be an effective tool for approaching this ideal. We need to transform
         the state of society as described above through proper development and deployment
         of AI.

    (3) Sustainability: A sustainable society
        We need to use AI to bring new businesses and solutions into the world one after another
        to build a sustainable society that can eliminate social disparities and address global
        environmental problems and climate changes. As a science-and-technology-oriented
        country, Japan has a responsibility to contribute to the creation of such a society by
        using AI to strengthen its accumulated scientific and technological expertise and
        knowledge.




                                                 11
                                           Dignity: A society that has
                                           respect for human dignity




                                                Basic philosophies

                     Diversity & Inclusion: A
                    society where people with                              Sustainability: A
                    diverse backgrounds can                               sustainable society
                   pursue their own well-being



                                            Figure 5. Basic philosophies


   These fundamental concepts remain goals for us to achieve and do not change despite
significant technological evolution. Therefore, these basic philosophies should be respected as
objectives to achieve through domestic and international frameworks as AI evolves.



B. Principles
  To realize the basic philosophies, it is important that each AI business actor makes efforts to
comply with the philosophies. Therefore, we categorized the principles that should be kept in
mind by each AI business actor into the activities to be implemented by each AI business actor
and the activities expected to be implemented in cooperation with society. These principles have
been formulated by restructuring “Social Principles of Human-Centric AI” in accordance with
overseas principles, including OECD’s AI principles.


Activities to be implemented by each AI business actor
  It is important that each AI business actor achieves its purposes of AI, such as creating business
value and solving social challenges, while promoting the development, provision, or use of AI
systems and services and maintaining human dignity, based on the human-centric 11 concept
derived from the basic philosophies. To accomplish this, it is important that each AI business
actor ensures values, such as safety and fairness, to reduce societal risks arising from AI use. In
addition, it is important to protect privacy including the prevention of inappropriate use of
personal data and ensure security against risks such as a decreasing availability and external
attack caused by vulnerabilities of AI systems. To achieve these goals, it is important that each
AI business actor ensures the verifiability of systems and improves transparency by providing
appropriate information to stakeholders12 and ensures accountability.
  In consideration of the possibility of the roles of AI business actors changing due to value chain
changes caused by the diversification of AI architectures, it is important that AI business actors
cooperate with each other to make efforts to improve the quality of AI in the entire value chain
and continue discussions among multiple stakeholders.
  By making these efforts, each AI business actor is expected to derive maximum benefit from
the development, provision, or use of AI systems and services while minimizing the AI risks.


11
  The underlined parts are organized as “C. Common Guiding Principles” in the latter part.
12
  Stakeholder: All the AI business actors who might be directly or indirectly affected by AI use including third parties other
than AI developers, AI providers, AI business users, and non-business users. (The same shall apply hereafter.)

                                                             12
Activities expected to be implemented in cooperation with society
   In order to enhance benefits from AI for the society and realize the basic philosophies that we
should pursue, each AI business actor is expected to actively collaborate with the society,
including the governments, municipalities, and communities, as well as individually commit to
its own activities. To accomplish this, each AI business actor is expected to provide opportunities
for ensuring education and literacy in cooperation with the society to avoid divisions within the
society and spread the benefits from AI to all of the people. In addition to that, each AI business
actor is expected to contribute to activities that ensure fair competition and facilitate innovation
that can create new businesses and services, maintain sustainable economic growth, and provide
solutions for social challenges.



C. Common Guiding Principles
   In the activities, each AI business actor should develop, provide, or use AI systems and services
respecting the rule of law, human rights, democracy, diversity, inclusion, and fair and just society
in light of “1) Human-centric” described below. In addition, relevant laws, including the
Constitution of Japan, Intellectual Property Basic Act and relevant laws, and Act on the
Protection of Personal Information as well as existing laws and regulations in individual fields
pertaining to AI should be observed, and it is important to pay close attention to the
circumstances of the drafting of international guiding principles13 16.
   It is important that each AI business actors understand characteristics, intended use, purposes
and social context of AI systems/services and positively process these activities with limited
resources.


1) Human-Centric
        When developing, providing, or using an AI system or service, each AI business actor should
      act in a way that does not violate the human rights guaranteed by the Constitution of Japan
      or granted internationally, as the foundation for accomplishing all matters to be conducted,
      including the matters described later. In addition, it is important that each AI business actor
      acts so that the AI expands human abilities and enables diverse people to seek diverse well-
      being.

      (1) Human dignity and autonomy of individuals
           Based on the social context of AI use, respect human dignity and the autonomy of
             individuals.
           In particular, when linking AI with someone’s brain or body, refer to discussions
             about bioethics in foreign countries and research institutions, together with
             information of peripheral technologies.
           When profiling using AI in a field where personal rights and benefits can be severely
             affected, use AI respecting the dignity of individuals, maintaining the utmost
             accuracy of the outputs, understanding limitations of predictions,
             recommendations, and judgments of AI, and carefully considering possible
             drawbacks, and do not use it for inappropriate purposes.

      (2) Paying attention to manipulations by AI on decision-makings and emotions
           Do not develop, provide, or use AI systems and services with purpose of
              manipulating human decision making, recognition and emotion or on the premise
              of unconscious control.

13
  Governing laws should be obeyed in accordance with the geographic business deployment status, locations of the AI providers
and AI business users of the developed AI models, the locations of the servers to be used for training and the like. When you
are required to comply with Japanese laws, handle personal data, intellectual property rights, and such like in compliance
with their respective applicable laws in accordance with the data type. As for the handling of data, note that the use of some
data might be prohibited by a contract between stakeholders, even when it is not stipulated by laws.

                                                             13
                  When developing, providing, or using an AI system or service, pay attention and
                   take necessary countermeasures against the risk of heavy dependence on AI, such
                   as automated biases14 15.
                  Pay attention to AI use that might instigate biased information or values and
                   unwillingly limit the options that should be originally available to people including
                   AI business users, such as a filter bubble16.
                  Carefully handle AI outputs, especially when they can be relevant to procedures
                   that might significantly affect the society, such as an election and decision-making
                   in a community.

      (3) Countermeasures against disinformation, etc.
           Generative AI has enabled everyone to forge fake information that seems to be
              true and fair, so recognize the increasing risk of destabilizing and confusing the
              society through disinformation, misinformation, and biased information generated
              by AI, and take necessary countermeasures17 18.

      (4) Ensuring diversity/inclusion
           In addition to ensuring fairness, to prevent information poverty and digital poverty
              and allow more people to enjoy the benefits of AI, pay attention to make it easy
              for socially vulnerable people to use AI.
              ⚫ Adopt universal design, ensure accessibility, and provide relevant
                   stakeholders19 with education and support.

      (5) Providing user support
           Offer rational information about the functions and peripheral technologies of the
               AI system or service, and allow users to use functions that timely and appropriately
               offer the information for judging choices.
               ⚫ For example, default settings, provision of understandable options, provision
                    of feedbacks, alerts in an emergency, and handling of errors.

      (6) Ensuring sustainability
           Examine the impact of the whole lifecycle on the global environment during the
              development, provision, and use of AI systems and services. (In particular, for AI
              systems with high computational complexity, such as generative AI, implement

14
   Refers to a phenomenon in which automated systems or technologies are excessively trusted or depended on when humans
make judgments and decisions.
15
   The necessary measures proposed in response to the above challenges include the following methods:
・Receiving training to understand the characteristics and limitations of AI, in order not to blindly accept AI outputs, such as
evaluations, judgments, recommendations, or predictions.
・When approving AI evaluations or judgments, independently considering the reasons and grounds for their approval before
doing so.
16
   A filter bubble refers to an information environment where an algorithm analyzes and learns about search histories and click
histories of individual Internet users to preferentially show information they like, regardless of whether or not they want it to
do so, separating them from information that disagrees with their viewpoints, and consequently, isolating them in a “bubble”
of their own ways of thinking and values. In addition to a filter bubble, an echo chamber is also mentioned as one of the
phenomena that are said to be caused by the interaction between the intrinsic human tendency and the characteristics of
Internet media. While there are risks described above, AI also has a benefit that provides personalized and filtered answers to
AI business users and non-business users enabling to offer proposals in a beneficial manner.
17
   To consider future policy directions and specific measures for ensuring the soundness of information distribution in the digital
space, including countermeasures to the distribution and dissemination of disinformation and misinformation on the Internet,
the “Study Group on Ensuring the Soundness of Information Distribution in the Digital Space” was held by the Ministry of Internal
Affairs and Communications, and the “Summary” was published in September 2024.
(https://www.soumu.go.jp/menu_news/s-news/01ryutsu02_02000417.html)
Additionally, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications is conducting the “Development and Demonstration Project
for Countermeasures Against False and Misleading Information on the Internet” as a technical response.
(https://www.soumu.go.jp/menu_news/s-news/01ryutsu02_02000415.html).
18
   The use of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is expected to suppress hallucinations and improve transparency in the
output process and rationale.
19
   Relevant stakeholder: The AI business actors who are directly or indirectly involved in AI use including AI developers, AI
providers, AI business users, and non-business users. (The same shall apply hereafter.)

                                                               14
                   measures like model weight reduction and the selective use of models according
                   to their purpose.)

        Each AI business actor is expected to consider these matters as preconditions and to
      enhance the performance (usefulness) of AI as much as possible to provide people with
      benefits and richness and achieve well-being.


2) Safety
        Each AI business actor should avoid damage to the lives, bodies, minds, and properties of
      stakeholders during the development, provision, and use of AI systems and services. In
      addition, it is important that the environment is not damaged.

      (1) Taking into consideration the lives, bodies, properties and minds of humans and the
          environment
           Ensure that the AI system/service is sufficiently fulfilling the requirements,
               including the accuracy of outputs (reliability).
           Ensure that the performance level is maintained under various circumstances, and
               that grossly incorrect judgments are not made for irrelevant events (robustness).
           Ensure controllability that allows humans to control AI as necessary including
               periodic and objective monitoring and handling, in accordance with the
               characteristics and purposes of the relevant AI, in light of the severity and
               possibility of rights violations that can result from AI use or unintended AI
               behaviors.
           Conduct appropriate risk analyses to take countermeasures against risks
               (avoidance, mitigation, transference, or acceptance).
           If there are potential hazards to the lives, bodies, properties, and minds of humans
               and the environment, organize measures to be taken in advance and offer related
               information to stakeholders.
               ⚫ Clearly specify measures that should be taken by relevant stakeholders and
                    the terms of use.
           Determine the responses for cases where the safety of AI systems or services is
               endangered so that the steps can be quickly taken in such cases.

      (2) Proper use (of AI)
           Develop, provide, or use AI systems and services within the range in which the AI
              business actor can control, preventing damage due to a provision or use that
              deviates from the intended purpose20.
           For the outputs of AI systems and services centered around multimodal generative
              AI, it is relatively easy to generate more sophisticated outputs. Therefore, be
              aware that this sophistication may contribute to misunderstandings or biases and
              could potentially infringe on others’ intellectual property rights, and implement
              measures21 such as human intervention in the use of these systems22.

      (3) Proper training23
           In accordance with the characteristics and purposes of AI systems and services,
              ensure the accuracy, and recency as necessary, of the data (appropriateness of the
              data) to be used for training.


20
   There is a high possibility that using Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) accelerates the convergence of responses
generated by AI. Therefore, it is important to note that, for tasks that require content diversity and originality, the use of RAG
may not be appropriate.
21
   As a measure to involve human judgment, it is suggested to include watermarks indicating that the content is AI-generated
and to improve the user interface.
22
   When utilizing AI to generate program code, it is important to prioritize the safety and security of the generated code.
23
   It is important that AI providers and AI business users, in addition to AI developers, also make efforts to ensure safety if they
make adjustments or conduct re-trainings.

                                                                15
                 Properly take actions such as the securement of transparency of data used for
                  training, compliance with the legal framework, and update of AI models, within
                  reasonable extent.
                 Pay close attention to ensuring that illegal content, such as infringing
                  reproductions and information24, is not included in training data25.

3) Fairness
        During the development, provision, or use of an AI system or service, it is important that
      each AI business actor makes efforts to eliminate unfair and harmful bias and discrimination
      against any specific individuals or groups based on race, gender, national origin, age,
      political opinion, religion, and so forth. It is also important that before developing,
      providing, or using an AI system or service, each AI business actor recognizes that there are
      some unavoidable biases even if such attention is paid, and determines whether the
      unavoidable biases are allowable from the viewpoints of respect for human rights and
      diverse cultures.26

      (1) Consideration for bias in technologies forming AI models
           There are a broad range of factors that can produce an bias, so identify the factors
              that might produce biases that can be considered as problems from the viewpoint
              of fairness. Those factors may include technological elements (training data, AI
              model training process, prompts entered by AI business users or non-business
              users27, and reference information and collaborating external services used by AI
              models for inference) and behaviors of AI business users.
           Study the possibility that biases that stakeholders may not intend or detect might
              be produced depending on the characteristics and purposes of the AI system or

24
   In the Agency for Cultural Affairs’ “On the Perspective of AI and Copyright” (Subcommittee on Legal Systems of the Copyright
Subcommittee, Council for Cultural Affairs, March 2024), concerns are raised by rights holders about the possibility of AI systems
learning from illegally uploaded content, such as pirated versions.
25
   As for the relationship with the laws with regard to intellectual properties, discussions are in progress in the Cabinet Office
and the Agency for Cultural Affairs, so pay close attention to the consideration status in the future. As for the relationship
between AI and copyrights, especially, the Legal System Subcommittee of the Copyright Subdivision of the Culture Council is
arranging their discussions, so it is important that each AI business actor to consider response policies based on the intent of
these discussions.

・Agency for Cultural Affairs, “On the Perspective of AI and Copyright” (Subcommittee on Legal Systems of the Copyright
Subcommittee, Council for Cultural Affairs, March 2024)
https://www.bunka.go.jp/seisaku/bunkashingikai/chosakuken/pdf/94037901_01.pdf
・Cabinet Office, “Interim Report of the Study Group on Intellectual Property Rights in the AI Era” (Intellectual Property
Strategy Promotion Bureau, May 2024)
https://www.kantei.go.jp/jp/singi/titeki2/chitekizaisan2024/0528_ai.pdf
・Agency for Cultural Affairs, “Checklist & Guidance on AI and Copyright” (Copyright Division, Agency for Cultural Affairs, July
2024)
https://www.bunka.go.jp/seisaku/chosakuken/pdf/94097701_01.pdf
・Cabinet Office, “Interim Report of the Study Group on Intellectual Property Rights in the AI Era - Guide (for Rights Holders)”
(Intellectual Property Strategy Promotion Bureau, November 2024)
https://www.kantei.go.jp/jp/singi/titeki2/chitekizaisan2024/2411_tebiki.pdf
The “Interim Report of the Study Group on Intellectual Property Rights in the AI Era” and the “Checklist & Guidance on AI and
Copyright” organize examples of expected initiatives for each entity, including “AI developers,” “AI providers,” and “AI users,”
as well as “non-business users (general users)” and “rights holders,” which differ from these guidelines.
26
   The term “bias” can be interpreted in various ways, as shown below, and this guideline uses it as a general term encompassing
these interpretations.
・Statistical term (sampling bias, skewness, deviation, etc.)
・Psychological term (cognitive bias, which stems from assumptions and includes social biases due to societal norms among
groups, emotional bias stemming from human emotions and conveniences, etc.)
Additionally, the NIST’s “Proposal for Identifying and Managing Bias in Artificial Intelligence (SP 1270)” explains that AI has
three categories of bias: Systemic (stemming from existing rules, norms, and practices), Statistical and Computational
(statistical and numerical), and Human (stemming from cognition, perception, habits, etc.), with typical biases belonging to
each category.
27
   AI business users can train generative AI, including large-scale language models, for a specific task using a training method
called in-context learning without updating the learned parameters in accordance with AI business users’ inputs (called
prompts).

                                                               16
                  service.

      (2) Intervention by decisions made by humans
           To prevent AI from generating unfair results, consider implementing timely human
               interventions, rather than letting AI make the decisions alone. It is essential to
               implement measures to prevent human judgment from being influenced by
               automation bias during this process28.
           Introduce a process for analyzing and handling the purposes, restrictions,
               requirements, and decisions for the AI system or service through clear and
               transparent methods, to see whether any biases have been produced.
           Be careful of unintended or undetectable biases and potential biases (biases not
               reflected in the training data)29, and communicate with stakeholders from various
               backgrounds including culture or speciality for direction.

4) Privacy protection
        It is important that during the development, provision, or use of an AI system or service,
      each AI business actor respects and protects privacy in accordance with its importance. At
      this time, relevant laws should be obeyed.

      (1) Protection of privacy across AI systems and services in general
           Observe relevant laws, including the Act on the Protection of Personal
              Information30, and formulate and announce the privacy policy of each AI business
              actor, to take measures to respect and protect the privacy of stakeholders, in
              accordance with its importance, based on the social contexts and legitimate
              expectations of people.
           Consider measures for privacy protection while taking into account the following
              matters:
              ⚫ Ensure measures based on the Act on the Protection of Personal Information.
              ⚫ Refer to international principles and standards for personal data protection.31


5) Ensuring security
        During the development, provision, or use of an AI system or service, it is important that
      each AI business actor ensures security to prevent the behaviors of AI from being
      unintentionally altered or stopped by unauthorized manipulations.

      (1) Security measures relevant to AI systems and services32



28
   For necessary measures, refer to the aforementioned footnote 15.
29
   Examples of potential biases include cases where sensitive attributes such as race or gender are inferred from related
information even when they are removed from the data, or where biases arise from the combination of multiple attributes
(intersectional bias).
30
   Regarding the Act on the Protection of Personal Information, the Personal Information Protection Commission has been
conducting a review every three years. As part of this, it is under consideration how personal consent should be when handling
data solely for purposes such as statistics creation including AI development.
https://www.ppc.go.jp/personalinfo/3nengotominaoshi/
(February 2025 Announcement：https://www.ppc.go.jp/files/pdf/seidotekikadainitaisurukangaekatanitsuite_r6.pdf)
31
   AI business actors are expected to follow international guiding principles on privacy, including “OECD, Recommendation of
the Council concerning Guidelines Governing the Protection of Privacy and Transborder Flows of Personal Data,
OECD/LEGAL/0188” and “ISO/IEC 29100:2011 Information technology Security techniques Privacy framework.” In addition, the
Global Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPR) Forum has been established with the purpose of promoting the smooth cross-border
transfer of personal data and the interoperability of regulations in countries across a broader range, and Japan joined it in
April 2022 and has announced the Global CBPR Framework. As for generative AI, refer to the “Statement on Generative AI” by
the G7 Data Protection and Privacy Authorities Roundtable (June 2023) and the “Resolution on Generative Artificial Intelligence
Systems” by the Global Privacy Assembly (GPA) (October 2023) as well.
32
   Details on methods are published in the “Guidelines for secure AI system development” (November 2023) by the National
Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) of the UK as well.
https://www8.cao.go.jp/cstp/stmain/20231128ai.html

                                                             17
                  To maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of AI systems and services
                   and ensure safe and secure AI use constantly, take reasonable measures based on
                   the technological level at the time.
                  Understand the characteristics of AI systems and services, and examine whether
                   the inter-system connections necessary for normal operations are properly
                   established.
                  Bearing in mind that relevant stakeholders might make unexpected judgments by
                   mixing detailed information into inference target data, recognize that
                   vulnerabilities cannot be completely eliminated from AI systems and services.

      (2) Consideration for the latest trends
           New methods for attacking AI systems and services from the outside are increasing
              on a daily basis. In order to address those risks, check the matters to be noted.


6)    Transparency33
        When developing, providing, or using an AI system or service, based on the social context
      when the AI system or service is used, it is important that each AI business actor provides
      stakeholders with information to the reasonable extent necessary and technically possible
      while ensuring the verifiability of the AI system or service.

      (1) Ensuring verifiability
           In order to ensure verifiability relating to decisions made by AI, record or store logs
              of AI training processes, inference processes, rationales of decisions made by AI,
              and the like (for example, input/output generated when developing and using the
              AI system or service) to the extent possible based on the data amount or contents.
           Discuss method, frequency, maintenance period and so on recordings of data logs,
              taking into account the importance for identifying causes of accidents, and so
              forth, devising preventive measures, or proving requirements for responsibilities
              for damages, in accordance with characteristic of used technology as well as
              purposes.

      (2) Providing relevant stakeholders with information
           Based on the relations with AI and the nature and purpose of AI, provide and explain
               information summarizing the items listed below according to the knowledge and
               ability of each stakeholder.
               ⚫ AI systems and services in general
                    ➢ Fact that AI is used and its scope
                    ➢ Methods for data collection and annotation
                    ➢ Methods for training and evaluation
                    ➢ Information on the underlying AI models
                    ➢ Capabilities and limitations of the AI system or service, and
                         proper/improper use by AI business users


33
   Various countries define transparency in different ways. For example, the “Artificial Intelligence Risk Management
Framework” by NIST (January 2023) defines it in three categories for AI: transparency (which can answer the question of “what
happened” in the system), explainability (which can answer the question of “how” a decision was made in the system), and
interpretability (which can answer the question of “why” a decision was made by the system and its meaning or context to the
user), while the “ETHICS GUIDELINES FOR TRUSTWORTHY AI” by the European Commission (April 2019) defines it as traceability,
explainability, and communication. The international standard ISO/IEC JTC1/SC42 defines the transparency as the degree to
which appropriate information about the AI system is communicated to relevant stakeholders.
  In addition, in the EU, the AI Act (Artificial Intelligence Act) (June 2024), transparency means that AI systems are developed
and utilized in a way that ensures appropriate traceability and explainability, enabling humans to recognize when they are
communicating or interacting with an AI system, adequately disclosing the AI system’s functions and limitations to users, and
explaining rights to affected individuals.
  In this document, matters relating to information disclosure are broadly referred to as “transparency.”
  It is important to note that, in addition to definitions, the subjects of disclosure, the entities responsible for disclosure, and
the purposes of disclosure can vary between countries.

                                                                18
                        ➢   Relevant laws applicable in the country/region where those provided with
                            the AI system or service or AI business users are located
                 Encourage a variety of stakeholders to engage actively through dialogues and
                  collect various opinions on social impacts and safety.
                 In addition, show actual advantages of providing or using the AI system or service
                  and risks to relevant stakeholders.

      (3) Reasonable and truthful support
           Provision of information to stakeholders described above “(2) Providing relevant
              stakeholders with information” doesn’t necessarily assume disclosure of algorithms
              or source code, but it assumes providing them to the extent that satisfies social
              rationality based on the characteristics and uses of the technologies to be adopted
              while respecting privacy and trade secrets. (However, it is necessary to satisfy the
              demands for “(4) Improving explainability and interpretability for relevant
              stakeholders” and “7) Accountability” as stated later.)
           If any open technologies are used, conform to the rules specified for them.
           When disclose developed AI systems as open source, consider any potential social
              impacts.

      (4) Improving explainability and interpretability for relevant stakeholders
           Share necessary explanations for those to be explained with actors who explain to
              analyze requirements of such explanation to gain relevant stakeholders'
              understanding and sense of safety to provide proof of AI operations.
              ⚫ AI provider: Inform the AI developer about things that are required to be
                  explained.
              ⚫ AI business user: Inform the AI developer and AI provider about things that are
                  required to be explained.


7)    Accountability34
        When developing, providing, or using an AI system or service, it is important that each AI
      business actor executes its accountability to stakeholders within reasonable extent for
      ensuring traceability, conforming to common guiding principles, and the like based on each
      AI business actor’s roles and the degree of risks posed by the AI system or service.

      (1) Improving traceability
           Establish a situation that allows the origin of data and decisions made during the
              development, provision, or use of the AI system or service to be traced forward
              and backward to the extent that is reasonable and technically possible.

      (2) Explanation of conformity to common guiding principles
           Provide and explain information on how AI business actors conform to common
              guiding principles regularly to stakeholders, including suppliers, according to their
              knowledge and competence. This information summarizes, for example, the
              following items:
              ⚫ General
                   ➢ Whether any risk is found that prevents the common guiding principles
                       from being implemented, to what extent it prevents the implementation
                       of those guiding principles
                   ➢ Implementation progress of the common guiding principles
              ⚫ Human-centric


34
  While accountability is sometimes defined as explainability, the Guidelines handle information disclosure in the context of
transparency, so accountability is defined as the concept of taking actual and legal responsibilities for AI and setting
prerequisites for taking the responsibilities.

                                                            19
                         ➢    How disinformation is considered, and how diversity, inclusion, user
                              support, and sustainability are ensured
                  ⚫      Safety
                         ➢ Known risks relating to AI systems and services, countermeasures against
                              them, and how to ensure safety against them
                  ⚫      Fairness
                         ➢ Possibility that technological elements forming AI models will introduce
                              bias. Those elements may include training data, AI model training
                              process, prompts expected to be entered by AI business users or non-
                              business users, and reference information and collaborating external
                              services used by AI models for inference.
                  ⚫      Privacy protection
                         ➢ Risks of infringements of privacy of AI business actors or stakeholders
                              entailed by the AI system or service, countermeasures against those risks,
                              and actions expected to be taken when the privacy breach actually
                              occurred.
                  ⚫      Ensuring security
                         ➢ Conformity to standards required to facilitate collaboration between AI
                              systems and services or with other systems if such collaboration occurs
                         ➢ Any risks that may occur when the AI system or service collaborates with
                              other AI systems and services via the Internet, and measures to be taken
                              against the risks

      (3) Designation of responsible persons
           Appoint someone as the person responsible for executing its accountability in each
              AI business actor.

      (4) Sharing responsibilities among actors
           As for responsibilities shared among actors, clarify who take the responsibilities
              through contracts or social promises (voluntary commitments) between AI
              business actors including non-business users.

      (5) Specific actions for stakeholders
           As necessary, establish and publicly report policies, including those created by each
              AI business actor on AI governance or privacy in relation to risk management or
              safety assurance associated with the use of AI systems and services. Those policies
              involve social responsibilities, including sharing visions with and giving out and
              providing information to society and general citizens.
           As necessary, set opportunities for accepting comments from stakeholders on
              incorrect AI output and the like, and conduct periodic and objective monitoring of
              the output.
           Set policies to handle cases that might affect the interests of stakeholders 35 .
              Execute those policies reliably and report the progress regularly to the
              stakeholders as necessary.

      (6) Documentation36
           Document and store information on the items described above and keep them
              available for a prescribed period whenever and wherever required and able to be
              referenced in a manner appropriate for their use.


35
   In particular, it is desirable to take appropriate measures within the necessary scope when receiving inquiries or requests for
information disclosure from rights holders of training data or those who have suffered disadvantages due to AI evaluations,
judgments, recommendations, or predictions. Moreover, if a disclosure order or similar directive is issued by a court, it is
required to follow the said order and undertake the necessary procedures.
36
   Regarding “documentation,” there is no problem as long as records are kept using appropriate tools so that they can be
easily confirmed later, and they do not necessarily need to be recorded in the paper or specific document.

                                                               20
  The specific activities expected to be implemented by each AI business actor in cooperation
with society are organized as follows.


8) Education/literacy
        Each AI business actor is expected to provide the persons engaged in AI in the AI business
      actor with the necessary education to gain the knowledge, literacy, and ethical views to
      correctly understand and use AI in a socially correct manner. Each AI business actor is also
      expected to provide stakeholders with education, in consideration of the characteristics of
      AI, including its complexity and the misinformation that it may provide, and possibilities of
      intentional misuse of AI37.

      (1) Ensuring AI literacy
           Take the necessary steps to ensure that the persons engaged in AI in each AI
              business actor acquire AI literacy of the level sufficient for the engagement.

      (2) Education and reskilling
           It is assumed that the division of tasks between AI and humans will change due to
              the expansion of generative AI use, so discuss actively about education and
              reskilling to promote new ways of working38.
           Provide educational opportunities taking into account differences in knowledge
              and skills among generations so that various people can acquire a deeper
              understanding of benefits of AI and enhance the resilience against risks.

      (3) Support for stakeholders
           To improve the safety of the whole AI system or AI service, provide stakeholders
              with education and literacy advancement as necessary.


9) Ensuring fair competition
        Each AI business actor is expected to maintain the fair competitive environment
      surrounding AI so that new businesses and services using AI are created, the sustainable
      economic growth is maintained, and solutions for social challenges are provided.


10) Innovation


37
  The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and IPA published “Digital Skill Standards” (December 2022) that organized the
profile of ideal human resources needed in the DX era as a guiding principle on personal studies and recruitment and education
of human resources in companies. In addition, they compiled “Concept of Human Resources and Skills Needed to Promote DX
in Generative AI Era” in August 2023 and added the necessity for the familiarity with directions (prompts) and capabilities to
put queries and build up and verify hypotheses to the skill standards. Furthermore, by July 2024, considering the impact of the
widespread adoption of generative AI, we added notes on approaches to new technologies and included generative AI-related
technologies such as “large language models, image generation models, and audio generation models” in the examples of
learning items for “data utilization” and “technology.” Additionally, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry has published
a "Guidebook for the Utilization of Generative AI in Content Production," which outlines directions for the proper use of
generative AI in content creation, taking into consideration the protection of intellectual property rights and related interests
(July 2024). (Japanese Only) https://www.meti.go.jp/policy/mono_info_service/contents/ai_guidebook_set.pdf
・Digital Skill Standards(Japanese Only) https://www.meti.go.jp/policy/it_policy/jinzai/skill_standard/main.html
・Study group on human resources policy in the digital age (Japanese Only)
https://www.meti.go.jp/shingikai/mono_info_service/digital_jinzai/index.html
The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications also published “The First Step of Generative AI - Introduction to the Basic
Use and Precautions of Generative AI” for citizens (beginners) who may encounter generative AI in their future lives,
introducing basic knowledge of generative AI, utilization scenes, introductory usage methods, and points to note when using
generative AI.
https://www.soumu.go.jp/use_the_internet_wisely/special/generativeai/
38
   The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s Employment Policy Research Group touches on career formation and skill
education based on technological changes under the theme of “Improving Labor Productivity Utilizing New Technologies.”
https://www.mhlw.go.jp/stf/shingi/other-syokuan_128950.html

                                                              21
      Each AI business actor is expected to make efforts to actively contribute to the promotion
    of innovation for the whole society.

    (1) Promoting open innovation, etc.
         Promote internationalization, diversification, collaboration among industry,
            academia, and government sectors, and open innovation.
         Make efforts to maintain the environment in which data necessary for AI innovation
            is created.

    (2) Consideration for interconnectivity and interoperability
         Ensure the interconnectivity and interoperability between your AI systems/services
            and other AI systems/services.
         When there are standard specifications, comply with them.

    (3) Providing information appropriately
         Provide necessary information to the extent that does not hinder the innovation of
             the information provider.

  In addition to the matters described above, important matters for AI developers, AI providers
or AI business users, respectively, are organized in “Table 1. Important matters for each AI
business actor in addition to common guiding principles.” As for the matters expressed as “-” in
the table, each AI business actor is expected to implement the actions described in the “Part 2.
C. Common guiding principles” column, rather than doing nothing.

  Moreover, regarding the relationship between AI and intellectual property rights, it is
important for each entity to consider response policies based on the intent, as organized in the
Cabinet Office’s “Interim Report of the Study Group on Intellectual Property Rights in the AI Era”
(May 2024) and the Agency for Cultural Affairs’ “Checklist & Guidance on AI and Copyright” (July
2024). Each entity should consider response policies based on the intent of these documents.

  Hereinafter, each matter (item) described in “Table 1. Important matters for each AI business
actor in addition to common guiding principles” will be identified and indicated with the notation
[AI business actor - Guiding principle number) Description.].
        An AI business actor is indicated by its initial: AI Developer, AI Provider, and AI Business
         User. A guiding principle number and description number are indicated by numbers,
         respectively, given in the table.
    “D-2) i.”, for example, refers to the important matter for AI developers about the proper
  data training regarding safety.




                                                22
Table 1. Important matters for each AI business actor in addition to common guiding principles

                      Part 2.       Important matters for each AI business actor in addition to
                C. Common guiding                   common guiding principles
                     principles   Part 3. AI Developer Part 4. AI Provider    Part 5. AI Business
                                           (D)                 (P)                 User (U)
1)              (1) Human dignity and            -                                  -                                 -
Human-              autonomy of individuals
centric         (2) Paying attention to
                    manipulations by AI on
                    decision-makings and
                    emotions
                (3) Countermeasures against
                    disinformation
                (4) Ensuring
                    diversity/inclusion
                (5) Providing user support
                (6) Ensuring sustainability
2)              (1) Taking into consideration     i. Proper data training           i. Actions against risks that    i. Proper use (of AI) that
Safety              the lives, bodies,           ii. Development that takes            consider the lives, bodies,      considers safety
                    properties and minds of          into consideration the            properties, and minds of
                    humans and the                   lives, bodies, properties         human and the
                    environment                      and minds of humans and           environment
                (2) Proper use (of AI)               the environment               ii. Provision contributing to
                (3) Proper training             iii. Development contributing          proper use (of AI)
                                                     to proper use (of AI)
3)              (1) Consideration for bias in    i. Consideration for bias in      i. Consideration for bias in      i. Consideration for bias in
Fairness            technologies forming AI         data                              configurations and data of        input data or prompt
                    models                      ii. Consideration for bias in         AI systems and services
                (2) Intervention by decisions       algorithms, etc., of AI
                    made by humans                  models
4)              (1) Protection of privacy        i. Proper data training            i. Deployment of mechanisms      i. Countermeasures against
Privacy             across AI systems and        (Repeat of D-2) i.)                   and measures for                 inappropriate input of
protection          services in general                                                protecting privacy               personal data and privacy
                                                                                   ii. Countermeasures against          violation
                                                                                       privacy violation
5)              (1) Security measures            i. Deployment of mechanisms        i. Deployment of mechanisms      i. Implementation of security
Ensuring            relevant to AI systems          for security measures              for security measures            measures
security            and services                ii. Consideration for the latest   ii. Handling of vulnerabilities
                (2) Consideration for the           trends
                    latest trends
6)              (1) Ensuring verifiability       i. Ensuring verifiability          i. Documentation of system       i. Providing relevant
Transparency    (2) Providing relevant          ii. Providing relevant                 architectures and the like       stakeholders with
                    stakeholders with               stakeholders with              ii. Providing relevant               information
                    information                     information                        stakeholders with
                (3) Reasonable and truthful                                            information
                    support
                (4) Improving explainability
                    and interpretability for
                    relevant stakeholders
7)             (1) Improving traceability        i. Explanation to AI providers     i. Explanation to AI business     i. Explanation to relevant
Accountability (2) Explanation of                   of conformity to common            users of conformity to            stakeholders
                   conformity to common             guiding principles                 common guiding principles     ii. Effective use of provided
                   guiding principles           ii. Documentation of               ii. Documentation of service          documents and conformity
               (3) Designation of                   development-related                agreements or the like            to agreements
                   responsible persons              information
               (4) Sharing responsibilities
                   among actors
               (5) Specific actions for
                   stakeholders
               (6) Documentation
8)              (1) Ensuring AI literacy         -                                  -                                 -
Education/      (2) Education and reskilling
literacy        (3) Support for stakeholders
9)              -                                -                                  -                                 -
Ensuring fair
competition
10)             (1) Promoting open               i. Contribution to creation of     -                                 -
Innovation          innovation, etc.                opportunities for
                (2) Consideration for               innovation
                    interconnectivity and
                    interoperability
                (3) Providing information
                    appropriately


                                                                        23
D. Common Guiding Principles for AI Business actors involved in
advanced AI systems
  On the basis of “Hiroshima Process International Guiding Principles for All AI Actors” established
through the Hiroshima AI Process and its foundation “Hiroshima Process International Guiding
Principles for Organizations Developing Advanced AI System,” the business actors involved in
advanced AI systems should comply with the following in addition to the common guiding
principles39. Note that some items from I) to XI) are applicable only to AI developers of advanced
AI systems, so AI providers and AI business users are required to comply with items within the
appropriate scope as described later in Parts 3 to 5.

I)    Take appropriate measures throughout the development of advanced AI systems, including
      prior to and throughout their deployment and placement on the market, to identify,
      evaluate, and mitigate risks across the AI lifecycle. (“2) Safety”, “6) Transparency”)
      ➢ Specifically, employing diverse internal and independent external testing measures,
           through a combination of methods such as red-teaming40, and implementing
           appropriate mitigation to address identified risks and vulnerabilities
      ➢ In support of such testing, developers should seek to enable traceability, in relation to
           datasets, processes, and decisions made during system development.

II)   Identify and mitigate vulnerabilities, and, where appropriate, incidents and patterns of
      misuse, after deployment including placement on the market. (“5) Ensuring security” and
      “7) Accountability”)
      ➢ Use, as and when appropriate commensurate to the level of risk, AI systems as
           intended and monitor for vulnerabilities, and take appropriate action to address
           these.
            encouraged to maintain appropriate documentation of reported incidents and to
                mitigate the identified risks and vulnerabilities, in collaboration with other
                stakeholders.

III) Publicly report advanced AI systems’ capabilities, limitations and domains of appropriate
     and inappropriate use, to support ensuring sufficient transparency, thereby contributing to
     increase accountability. (“6) Transparency” and “7) Accountability”)
     ➢ Make a reasonable explanation of what decision was made, starting with the source of
          the data, and document and publish it to ensure traceability.
     ➢ Document and publish in a clear and understandable manner so that relevant
          stakeholders can interpret the output of the AI system and use it appropriately by AI
          business users and non-business users

IV) Work towards responsible information sharing and reporting of incidents among
    organizations developing advanced AI systems including with industry, governments, civil
    society, and academia. (“5) Ensuring security”, “6) Transparency”, “7) Accountability”,
    “10) Innovation”)



39
   For details, refer to “II. Hiroshima Process International Guiding Principles for All AI Actors and for Organizations Developing
Advanced AI Systems” of “Hiroshima AI Process Comprehensive Policy Framework” in “Hiroshima AI Process G7 Digital & Tech
Ministers’ Statement” adopted in the G7 Digital & Tech Ministers’ Meeting (December 2023).
https://www.soumu.go.jp/menu_news/s-news/01tsushin06_02000283.html
40
   A team that verifies the effectiveness of security response system and countermeasures from the perspective of how attackers
attack target organizations.
A guide on the red teaming method has been published by the AISI.
AISI, “Guide on Red Teaming Method for AI Safety” (September 2024)
https://aisi.go.jp/effort/effort_framework/guide_to_red_teaming_methodology_on_ai_safety/

                                                               24
     ➢   These include reports on monitoring results and documents related to security and
         safety risks.

V)   Develop, implement and disclose AI governance and risk management policies grounded in
     a risk-based approach – including privacy policies, and mitigation measures, in particular
     for organizations developing advanced AI systems. (see “4) Privacy protection”, “7)
     Accountability”)
     ➢ If appropriate case, publish privacy policy
     ➢ It is expected to establish and disclose AI governance policies and practices.

VI) Invest in and implement robust security management, including physical security, cyber
     security and security measures against internal threats, throughout the AI lifecycle. (“5)
     Ensuring security”)
     ➢ Consider operational measures for information security and appropriate
          cyber/physical access control, etc.
VII) Develop and deploy reliable content authentication and provenance mechanisms, where
     technically feasible, such as watermarking or other techniques to enable users to identify
     AI-generated content. (“6 Transparency”)
     ➢ Specifically, it includes content authentication and usual mechanisms created by the
          organization’s advanced AI systems where appropriate and technically feasible.
     ➢ Make effort to develop tools and APIs that allow AI business users and non-business
          users to determine whether or not specific content through watermarks has been
          created using advanced AI systems.
           It is encouraged to introduce other mechanisms, such as labelling and disclaimer
               labelling, to help AI business users and non-business users know that they are
               interacting with the AI system.

     ➢   Prioritize research to reduce social, safety and security risks and prioritize investment
         in effective mitigation measures (“10) Innovation”) Includes research on improving AI
         safety, security, reliability, and handling risks

VIII) Prioritize research to mitigate societal, safety and security risks and prioritize investment
      in effective mitigation measures. (“10) Innovation”)
      ➢ Implement efforts to develop reliable, human-centric AI, and at the same time
           provide support for the improvement of literacy among non-business users.

IX) Prioritize the development of advanced AI systems to address the world’s greatest
    challenges, notably but not limited to the climate crisis, global health and education.
    (“10) Innovation”).
    ➢ Contribute to the development of international technical standards and best
         practices, including watermarks, use them if appropriate, and go along with the
         Standard Development Organization (SDO)

X)   Advance the development of and, where appropriate, adoption of international technical
     standards. (“2) Safety” and “3) Fairness”)
     ➢ Appropriate measures to manage the quality of data, such as training data and data
         collection, are encouraged to mitigate harmful bias
     ➢ Appropriate transparency of the training dataset should also be supported and
         adherence to applicable legal frameworks

XI) Implement appropriate data input measures and protections for personal data and
    intellectual property. (“5) Ensuring security” and “8) Education and literacy”)
    ➢ Provide opportunities to improve the literacy and awareness of each AI business actor
         and stakeholder, including issues such as how advanced AI systems increase specific
         risks (e.g., those related to the proliferation of fake information) and how new risks
         are created

                                                25
         It is encouraged to collaborate among AI business actors to share information to identify
         and handle new risks and vulnerabilities associated with advanced AI systems.
XII) Promote and contribute to trustworthy and responsible use of advanced AI systems. (“5)
     Ensuring security” and “8) Education and literacy”)
     ➢ Provide opportunities to improve their own and, where appropriate, others’ digital
         literacy, training and awareness, including on issues such as how advanced AI systems
         may exacerbate certain risks (e.g. with regard to the spread of disinformation) and/or
         create new ones



E. Building AI governance
  In order to implement the common guiding principles across value chains with the cooperation
of AI business actors and use AI safely and securely, it is important to build AI governance that
manages risks posed by AI at levels acceptable to stakeholders and maximizes their benefits. In
order to create Society 5.0, it is also essential to socially implement a system that merges the
cyberspace and physical space in an advanced way (CPS) and build appropriate AI governance for
the system. A society with CPS set as its foundation is complex and rapidly changes, and it is
difficult to control the risks in such a society. Those social changes cause the goals targeted by
the AI governance to continuously change. Therefore, it is important to practice agile governance
instead of regular AI governance where the predefined rules or procedures remain unchanged. In
agile governance, multiple stakeholders continuously and rapidly run a cycle consisting of
environment and risk analysis, goal setting, system design, operation, and then evaluation in
various governance systems in companies, regulations, infrastructure, markets, social codes and
the like41.

   For specific studies, it is important to take into consideration the severity and probabilities of
risks posed by the AI developed, provided, or used by each AI business actor and limitations on
the resources of each AI business actor.
      (1) Each AI business actor first conducts an environment and risk analysis for the AI system
          or service based on the benefits and risks the AI system or service may bring about
          during the overall lifecycle, social acceptance relating to the development and
          operation, changes in the external environment, and the maturity of AI.
      (2) Then, according to the analysis results, each AI business actor determines whether to
          develop, provide, or use the AI system or service. If it decides to do so, consider setting
          AI governance goals 42 by establishing policies relating to AI governance. These AI
          governance goals should be consistent with each AI business actor’s reason for existence
          and management goals such as philosophy and vision.
      (3) After that, each AI business actor designs the AI management system to achieve the AI
          governance goals and operate the system. In this stage, each AI business actor
          establishes transparency and ensure accountability (such as fairness) towards external
          stakeholders about its AI governance goals and the operation status of those goals.
      (4) Then, each AI business actor continuously monitors and evaluates whether the AI
          management system, including risk assessment, is effectively functioning, and make
          continuous improvements.


41
   For reference, the appendix provides a detailed explanation for practicing AI governance based on “Governance Guidelines
for Implementation of AI Principles ver. 1.1” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, as well as action goals, which are
specific activities that each AI business actor works on, and virtual “practice cases” that assume each AI business actor.
42
   As AI governance goals, some AI business actors might establish an action policy (the name may vary with the AI business
actor, for example, “AI policy”) that consists of action items for the common guiding principles described in the Guidelines,
whereas some AI business actors might establish an action policy that includes other elements in addition to action items for
the common guiding principles (data use policy, for example). Guiding principles can also be provided to increase benefits. For
example, diversity and inclusion may be improved through effective use of AI. The naming is left to each AI business actor’s
discretion as well.

                                                              26
    (5) After the operation of the AI system or service commences, each AI business actor
        repeatedly analyzes the environments and risks based on changes in the external
        environment, including those in the social system, such as regulations, and review the
        goals as necessary.

                                              Goal
                                             setting

                             Environment
                               and risk
                              analyses


                                           Evaluation


                                                         System
                                                         design


                Changes in external        Operation           Transparency and
                   environment                            accountability for stakeholders
                                                               (such as fairness)



                            Figure 6. Basic model of agile governance


  Furthermore, when studying AI governance, it is important to keep in mind the value chain and
pay close attention to the following points.
    ➢    Secure the cooperation among AI business actors from the viewpoints of value chain
         and risk chain.
          Example of issues among multiple AI business actors: Understanding of AI risks,
              improvement of quality, creation of new values through interconnections among AI
              systems and services (System of Systems), development of literacy of AI business
              users or non-business users, and so on.
          Example of points necessary to be organized among AI business actors: Contracts
              concerning rights to training and using data and generated AI models.
    ➢    Clarify the risk chain including data distribution, conduct risk management activities
         suitable to each of the development, provision, and use stages, and build the AI
         governance regimes.
          If the value and/or risk chains from AI development to service implementation are
              expected to span across multiple countries, understand how the international
              society is studying AI governance suitable for ensuring free distribution of data
              (Data Free Flow with Trust (DFFT)), and ensure interoperability (consisting of two
              aspects: “standard” and “interoperability between frameworks”) that is based on
              that study.

  To make those activities effective, the management has a great responsibility, so it is important
that the management exhibits leadership. It is important to think of the building of AI governance
as prior investment with the aim of achieving sustainable growth and medium- and long-term
expansion of each AI business actor, not to regard the building of AI governance as costs from the
viewpoint of short-term pursuit of profit. Under such leadership, run the agile governance cycle
shown above and fit AI governance into the strategy of each organization and the company system
expecting the cycle to take hold in each organization as its culture.




                                                27
Part 3 Matters Related to AI Developers
   AI developers can directly design and modify AI models, so they significantly affect the output
from AI as for overall AI systems and services. The society also expects them to drive innovation,
so they have significant impact on the society. Therefore, it is important for AI developers to
study in advance as much as possible the impacts that the AI they develop may pose when it is
provided or used and take necessary measures against the impacts.
   When developing AI, excessively focusing on accuracy may cause privacy or fairness to be
compromised, or excessively focusing on privacy may cause transparency to be compromised.
Thus, there may be conflict between different risks or from an ethical viewpoint. In such cases,
it is important that the AI developers appropriately make decisions or corrections based on its
business risks and social impacts. When an unexpected incident occurs in an AI system, any party
in the AI value chain may be required to explain that incident. Bearing this in mind, it is important
for AI developers to leave records that help them reasonably explain how they were involved in
the AI system43.

     The matters important for AI developers are shown below.

⚫      During data preprocessing and training

       ➢    D-2) i. Proper data training
             Properly collect training data through privacy-by-design, etc., and if it contains
                 third-parties’ personal data, data requiring attention to intellectual property
                 rights, etc., ensure that such data is properly handled in compliance with laws and
                 regulations throughout the lifecycle of AI (“2) Safety,” “4) Privacy protection,” “5)
                 Ensuring security”).
             Implement proper protective measures before and across training by, for example,
                 considering the deployment of any data management and restriction function that
                 controls access to data (“2) Safety,” “5) Ensuring security”).

       ➢    D-3) i. Consideration for bias in data
             Take reasonable measures to control the quality of the data, noting that depending
                 on the learning process of training data and AI models, there may be biases
                 (including potential biases that do not appear in the training data) (“3) Fairness”).
             Based on the fact that biases, which that results in unreasonable disadvantage to
                 specific individuals or groups, which cannot be rationally explained, cannot be
                 completely eliminated from the process of training data, make sure AI models are
                 trained with properly represented data sets and check AI systems assume no bias
                 (“3) Fairness”).


⚫      When developing AI

       ➢    D-2) ii. Development that takes into consideration the lives, bodies, properties and
            minds of humans and the environment
             Set clear policy/guidance about safe use of AI to avoid danger incurred unexpected
                service/use of AI by developers (“2) Safety”):
                ⚫ Requirements for not only the performance under use conditions expected
                      under various circumstances but also the performance achievable under the
                      use in an unexpected environment
                ⚫ Requirements for methods for minimizing risks (loss of control of a linked

43
  The OECD provides a catalog of tools and indicators to improve the reliability of AI development.
https://oecd.ai/en/catalogue/overview

                                                             28
                        robot, inappropriate output, etc.) (guardrail technologies, etc.)

      ➢     D-2) iii. Development contributing to proper use (of AI)
             Establish clear policies and guidance on how AI can be used safely in order to avoid
                 unexpected harm caused by the provision or use of AI (“2) Safety”).
             When giving a post-training to a pre-trained AI model, select a proper pre-trained
                 AI model (whether a license for the commercial use is granted, pre-training data,
                 specs required for the training and execution, and so on) (“2) Safety”).

      ➢     D-3) ii. Consideration for bias in algorithms, etc., of AI models
             Consider the possibility that bias can be included by each technical element that
                 makes up the AI model (prompts entered by AI business users or non-business users,
                 reference information and collaborating external services used by AI models for
                 inference, etc.) (“3) Fairness”)
             Make sure AI models are trained with properly represented data sets and AI systems
                 assume no bias based on the fact that bias cannot be completely eliminated from
                 AI models (“3) Fairness”)

      ➢     D-5) i. Deployment of mechanisms for security measures
             Throughout the development of an AI system, take security measures appropriately
                 based on the characteristics of the adopted technologies (security by design) (“5)
                 Ensuring security”).

      ➢     D-6) i. Ensuring verifiability
             Note that the prediction performance and output quality of AI may significantly
                 change or may fail to attain the expected precision after the use of AI is started.
                 Preserve work records for follow-up verification and take measures to maintain
                 and improve the AI quality (“2) Safety,” “6) Transparency”).


⚫     After developing AI

      ➢     D-5) ii. Consideration for the latest trends
             New attack methods to AI systems are increasing on a daily basis. In order to
                 address those risks, considerations to be noted in each step of development should
                 be identified44 (“5) Ensuring security”).

      ➢     D-6) ii. Providing relevant stakeholders with information
             Provide information to relevant stakeholders in a timely manner (including cases
                 where you provide the information via AI providers) about the AI systems that you
                 develop (“6) Transparency”). This information may include, for example, the items
                 listed below:
                 ⚫ Possibility of changes in output or programs due to learning by AI systems (“1)
                       Human-centric”)
                 ⚫ Information on safety, including technical characteristics of AI systems,
                       mechanisms for ensuring safety, foreseeable risks that may arise as a result of
                       using the AI system, and remedies against them (“2) Safety”)
                 ⚫ The expected scope of use set by AI developers in which the AI can be safely
                       used in order to prevent harm by AI provision or use unexpected during
                       development (“2) Safety”)
                 ⚫ Information on the operational status of AI systems, causes of failures, and
                       status of actions against them (“2) Safety”)


44
  You can collect information via “Promotion of AI” of IPA, etc.
(Japanese Only) https://www.ipa.go.jp/digital/ai/index.html

                                                              29
           ⚫    Details of an update for AI, if any, and information on reasons for the update
                (“2) Safety”)
           ⚫    Policies on collecting data learned by AI models, how AI models learn the data,
                and the system for implementing the learning (“3) Fairness,” “4) Privacy
                protection,” “5) Ensuring security”)

  ➢   D-7) i. Explanation to AI providers of conformity to common guiding principles
       Explain to AI providers that the prediction performance or output quality of AI may
           significantly change or may fail to attain the expected precision after AI starts to
           be used and that risks may arise as a result of this characteristic. Provide AI
           providers with relevant information as well. Specifically, communicate the
           following items (“7) Accountability”):
           ⚫ Measures against bias that technological elements forming AI models may
                introduce. Those elements may include training data, AI model training
                process, prompts assumed to be entered by AI business users or non-business
                users, and reference information and collaborating external services used by
                AI models for inference (“3) Fairness”).

  ➢   D-7) ii. Documentation of development-related information
       In order to improve traceability and transparency, prepare documents on your AI
           system development processes, data collection and labeling affecting decision-
           makings, algorithms you have used, and the like, as far as possible in a form that
           third parties can use to validate the documents (“7) Accountability”).
           (Note) This does not require to disclose all the documents prepared.

The matters at which AI developers are expected to make efforts are listed below:

  ➢   D-10) i. Contribution to creation of opportunities for innovation
       It is expected to implement the following items as far as possible and contribute
          to the creation of innovation opportunities (“10) Innovation”):
          ⚫ Research and develop quality, reliability, and development methodologies,
                and the like for AI.
          ⚫ Contribute to the maintenance of the sustainable economic growth and the
                provision of solutions for social challenges.
          ⚫ Promote internationalization, diversification, and collaboration among
                industry, academia, and government sectors, including watching trends in
                international arguments, such as DFFT, and joining AI developer communities
                and academic societies.
          ⚫ Provide all of society with information about AI.




                                            30
Additional matters described in “Hiroshima Process International Code of
Conduct for Organizations Developing Advanced AI Systems”
  In addition to the matters mentioned above, AI developers who develop advanced AI systems
should comply with “D. Common Guiding Principles for AI business actors involved in advanced AI
systems” in Part 2 and the “Hiroshima Process International Code of Conduct for Organizations
Developing Advanced AI Systems45.”

   The following descriptions show the matters additionally described in the “Code of Conduct”
in comparison with “D. Common Guiding Principles for AI business actors involved in advanced AI
systems” in Part 2. For the whole contents of the “Code of Conduct,” refer to “Appendix 3. C.
Matters to be observed in developing advanced AI systems.”

I.   Take appropriate measures throughout the development of advanced AI systems, including
     prior to and throughout their deployment and placement on the market, to identify,
     evaluate, and mitigate risks across the AI lifecycle.
     ➢ Document measures for risk mitigation and update them regularly. In addition, each AI
          business actor should evaluate and adopt mitigation measures against these risks in
          cooperation with relevant parties from across sectors.
II. Identify and mitigate vulnerabilities, and, where appropriate, incidents and patterns of
     misuse, after deployment including placement on the market.
     ➢ Encourage consideration of incentives to disclose vulnerabilities through reward
          systems, contests, prizes, etc.
III. Publicly report advanced AI systems’ capabilities, limitations and domains of appropriate
     and inappropriate use, to support ensuring sufficient transparency, thereby contributing to
     increase accountability.
     ➢ In addition to the Transparency Report, the Instructions for Use and related technical
          documents should be kept up to date.
IV. Work towards responsible information sharing and reporting of incidents among
     organizations developing advanced AI systems including with industry, governments, civil
     society, and academia.
     ➢ Develop and promote shared standards and mechanisms to ensure the safety and
          security of AI systems. In addition, appropriate documentation and cooperation with
          other AI business actors, sharing of relevant information and reporting to social should
          be conducted throughout the AI lifecycle.
V. Develop, implement and disclose AI governance and risk management policies, grounded in
     a risk-based approach – including privacy policies, and mitigation measures, in particular
     for organizations developing advanced AI systems.
     ➢ If possible, the AI Governance Policy should be developed, implemented, disclosed
          and regularly updated to identify, evaluate, prevent and address AI risks throughout
          the entire AI lifecycle. In addition, an education policy should be established for
          business staff, etc.
VI. Invest in and implement robust security controls, including physical security, cybersecurity
     and insider threat safeguards across the AI lifecycle.
     ➢ Assess the cyber security risks of advanced AI systems and require the storage of work
          and documents in an appropriate and secure environment. Measures to deal with
          unauthorized disclosure of risks, and the establishment of robust internal threat
          detection programs that are consistent with the protection of intellectual property
          and corporate secrets.



45
  The “Hiroshima Process International Code of Conduct for Organizations Developing Advanced AI Systems” (October 2023)
which was endorsed by the G7 Leaders’ Statement on the Hiroshima AI Process.
Note that this document is a living document compiled based on the existing OECD AI Principles in accordance with the trends
in advanced AI systems.
https://www.mofa.go.jp/mofaj/files/100573472.pdf

                                                            31
VII. Develop and deploy reliable content authentication and provenance mechanisms, where
      technically feasible, such as watermarking or other techniques to enable users to identify
      AI-generated content.
      ➢ In addition to using watermarks and identifiers, each AI business actor should
           cooperate and invest in research to advance the context in this area.
VIII. Prioritize research to mitigate societal, safety and security risks and prioritize investment
      in effective mitigation measures.
      ➢ Research and cooperate preferentially to handle risks, such as maintaining democratic
           values, respecting human rights, and protecting children and vulnerable populations.
           In addition, it is preferred to manage risks actively, including environmental and
           climate impacts, and to share risk research and best practices.
IX. Prioritize the development of advanced AI systems to address the world’s greatest
      challenges, notably but not limited to the climate crisis, global health and education.
      ➢ Support digital literacy initiatives that enable individuals and local communities to
           benefit from the use of AI and promote education and training for the public. Also
           develop solutions and identify issues with the public community and community
           groups.
X. Advance the development of and, where appropriate, adoption of international technical
      standards
      ➢ In addition to the development of international technology standards, the
           development of technology standards that can distinguish between AI-generated
           content and other content should be done.
XI. Implement appropriate data input measures and protections for personal data and
      intellectual property.
      ➢ As appropriate measures for managing the quality of data, implement machine learning
           for transparency and privacy protection and countermeasure including testing and fine
           tuning of leaks of sensitive data, and the introduce appropriate safeguards to honor
           rights related to privacy and intellectual property, including copyright-protected
           content.

      A “reporting framework” for AI developers to voluntarily verify and report their compliance
     with the “Code of Conduct” for developing advanced AI systems was agreed upon by the G7
     in cooperation with the OECD and has been operated since February 202546. AI developers
     who develop advanced AI systems in compliance with the “Code of Conduct” are expected
     to participate in the “reporting framework.”




46
  Hiroshima Process International Code of Conduct “Reporting Framework”
https://transparency.oecd.ai/

                                                         32
Part 4 Matters Related to AI Providers
  AI providers are responsible for adding value to AI systems that AI developers develop and
providing AI business users with AI systems and services. AI providers let AI gain popularity and
expand within the society and significantly contribute to the growth of society and the economy.
They have a considerable impact on society, so it is important that they provide AI systems and
services on the precondition that AI is used properly. Therefore, in addition to examining whether
the AI to be incorporated into an AI system or service is suited to the system or service, it is
important to conduct the appropriate change management, configuration management, and
service maintenance works taking into account that the expectations for AI might change in
accordance with changes in the business strategy or social environment.
  It is important to implement AI systems and services within the expected scope of use set by
AI developers, maintain proper operation and use of the systems or services, and request AI
developers to properly develop AI systems. It is important to provide AI business users with the
AI service while providing and supporting the operation of the AI system or while operating the
AI system. Upon provision, AI providers are expected to pay attention to prevent violations of
stakeholders’ rights and the occurrence of social drawbacks, etc., and share information of
incidents and the like within reasonable extent to provide safer, more secure and reliable AI
systems and services.

    The matters important for AI providers are shown below.

⚫     When implementing an AI system

      ➢   P-2) i. Actions against risks that consider the lives, bodies, properties, and minds of
          human and the environment
           Take measures that prevent AI from causing any harm on the lives, bodies,
               properties, and minds of stakeholders including AI business users, and the
               environment. The measures involve ensuring proper performances under usage
               conditions expected at the time of provision, enabling the AI system to maintain
               those performances in various situations, and minimizing (by guardrail technology
               or the like) risks caused by, for example, an uncontrollable robot linking to AI or
               improper output (“2) Safety”).

      ➢   P-2) ii. Provision contributing to proper use (of AI)
           Establish correct considerations to note for using AI systems and services (“2)
               Safety”).
           Use AI within the expected scope of use set by AI developers (“2) Safety”).
           Guarantee the accuracy of AI systems/services and recency as necessary
               (appropriateness of data) of training data at the time of its provision (“2) Safety”).
           Examine how AI usage environments of the users of the AI system or service differ
               from those that AI developers expect (“2) Safety”).

      ➢   P-3) i. Consideration for bias in configurations and data of AI systems and services
           Guarantee fairness of data at the time of its provision and examine bias contained
               in referenced information and collaborating external services (“3) Fairness”).
           Regularly evaluate inputs/outputs of AI models and rationales of decisions made
               by AI models to monitor for any bias generated. As necessary, encourage AI
               developers to re-evaluate the bias generated by each technical element forming
               AI models and promote the improvement of AI models based on the re-evaluation
               results (“3) Fairness”).
           Examine the possibility where bias may be introduced that arbitrarily restricts
               business processes and decisions made by AI business users, or non-business users
               on AI systems, services, or user interfaces receiving AI output results (“3)

                                                 33
             Fairness”).

    ➢   P-4) i. Deployment of mechanisms and measures for protecting privacy
         Throughout the implementation of an AI system, take privacy protection measures
             by, for example, introducing a mechanism that appropriately manages and restricts
             access to personal data based on the characteristics of the adopted technologies
             (privacy by design) (“4) Privacy protection”).

    ➢   P-5) i. Deployment of mechanisms for security measures
         Throughout the provision of an AI system or AI service, take security measures
             appropriately based on the characteristics of the adopted technologies (security
             by design) (“5) Ensuring security”).

    ➢   P-6) i. Documentation of system architectures and the like
         In order to improve traceability and transparency, prepare documents describing
             the system architecture and data processing of the provided AI system or service
             that influences the decision-making (“6) Transparency”).



⚫   After an AI system or service starts to be provided

    ➢   P-2) ii. Provision contributing to proper use (of AI)
         Periodically verify whether the AI system or service is used for proper purposes (“2)
             Safety”).

    ➢   P-4) ii. Countermeasures against privacy violation
         Properly collect necessary information concerning privacy protections on AI
             systems/services and discuss protection strategy when its violation is recognized
             to avoid repeated occurrence. (“4) Privacy protection”).

    ➢   P-5) ii. Handling of vulnerabilities
         There are many new attack methods targeting AI systems and services, so identify
             trends in the latest risks and matters requiring attention in each provision step.
             And, discuss to deal with vulnerabilities (“5) Ensuring security”).

    ➢   P-6) ii. Providing relevant stakeholders with information
         Provide information on the AI system or service to be provided (for example, the
             items listed below) in a timely and appropriate manner so that it can be easily
             understood and accessed (“6) Transparency”).
             ⚫ Fact that AI is used, appropriate/inappropriate use methods, etc. (“6)
                   Transparency”).
             ⚫ Information on safety, including technical characteristics of the AI systems and
                   services provided, foreseeable risks that may arise as a result of using the AI
                   systems and services, and remedies against them (“2) Safety”).
             ⚫ Possibility of changes in output or programs due to learning by the AI systems
                   and services (“1) Human-centric”).
             ⚫ Information on the operational status of the AI systems and services, causes
                   of failures, status of actions against them, incidents, etc. (“2) Safety”).
             ⚫ Details of an update of the AI system, if any, and information on reasons for
                   the update (“2) Safety”).
             ⚫ Policies on collecting data learned by AI models, how AI models learn the data,
                   and the system for implementing the learning (“3) Fairness,” “4) Privacy
                   protection,” “5) Ensuring security”).

    ➢   P-7) i. Explanation to AI business users of conformity to common guiding principles

                                              34
            Encourage AI business users to use AI properly and provide them with the following
             information (“7) Accountability”):
             ⚫ Call attention to the use of data for which accuracy, and recency as necessary
                  (appropriateness of data), are guaranteed (“2) Safety”).
             ⚫ Call attention to the learning of inappropriate AI models during in-context
                  learning (“2) Safety”).
             ⚫ Precautions for when inputting personal data (“4) Privacy protection”).
            Call attention to inappropriate input of personal data into the AI systems and
             services to be provided (“4) Privacy protection”).

         P-7) ii. Documentation of service agreements or the like
          Compile service agreements for AI business users or non-business users (“7)
              Accountability”).
          Present privacy policies (“7) Accountability”).

  Incidentally, AI providers who handle advanced AI systems should comply with “D. Common
Guiding Principles for AI business actors involved in advanced AI systems” in Part 2 as follows:
⚫   I) to XI): Comply with them within the appropriate scope.
⚫   XII):      Comply with it.




                                              35
Part 5 Matters Related to AI Business Users
   AI providers provide AI business users with safe, secure, and reliable AI systems and services.
It is important that AI business users always use the AI systems and services properly within the
scope of use set by the AI providers and, as necessary, operate the AI systems. By doing so, AI
business users can derive the maximum benefits from the innovation enabled by AI, including
greater business effectiveness, productivity, and creativity. In addition, human intervention
allows human dignity and autonomy to be conserved, helping to prevent unexpected incidents.
   If AI business users are requested to explain the abilities or output results of AI by the society
or stakeholders, do so to gain their acceptance by obtaining the support of AI providers. It is also
expected to learn the necessary insights to use AI more effectively.

    The matters important for AI business users are shown below.


⚫     When using AI systems and services

      ➢   U-2) i. Proper use (of AI) that considers safety
           Conform to instructions for use specified by AI providers, and use AI systems and
               services within the expected scope of use set by AI providers during the design
               process (“2) Safety”).
           Input data for which accuracy, and recency as necessary (appropriateness of data),
               are guaranteed (“2) Safety”).
           Understand the degrees of precision and risks of AI output and use AI output after
               confirming various risk factors (“2) Safety”).

      ➢   U-3) i. Consideration for bias in input data or prompt
           Input data for which fairness is guaranteed to avoid significant lack of fairness, pay
               attention to bias in prompts, and be responsible for determining whether to use AI
               output results for business (“3) Fairness”).

      ➢   U-4) i. Countermeasures against inappropriate input of personal data and privacy
          violation
           Refrain from improperly inputting personal data to AI systems and services (“4)
               Privacy protection”).
           Collect information on privacy violation in AI systems and services properly and
               take the necessary steps to prevent violations (“4) Privacy protection”).

      ➢   U-5) i. Implementation of security measures
           Conform to instructions for security specified by AI providers (“5) Ensuring
               security”).
           Pay attention not to improperly input secured information into AI systems/services
               (“5) Ensuring security”).

      ➢   U-6) i. Providing relevant stakeholders with information
           Input data for which fairness is guaranteed to avoid significant lack of fairness, and
               pay attention to bias in prompts when obtaining the output result from the AI
               system or service. When using the output result for business decision-making,
               inform the relevant stakeholders about the result (“3) Fairness,” “6)
               Transparency”).

      ➢   U-7) i. Explanation to relevant stakeholders



                                                 36
            Provide information, including instructions for proper use, in a plain and accessible
             manner to the reasonable extent according to the nature of the relevant
             stakeholders (“7) Accountability”).
            If planning to use data provided by relevant stakeholders, let the stakeholders
             know in advance how to provide the data and its formats based on the
             characteristics and use purposes of AI, contact points with the relevant
             stakeholders as data providers, privacy policies, and the like (“7) Accountability”).
            If intending to use the AI output result as a reference for an evaluation of a specific
             individual or group, notify the specific individual or group to be evaluated about
             the use of AI, follow procedures for guaranteeing the accuracy, fairness,
             transparency, etc., of the output result as recommended by the Guidelines, and
             make a reasonable judgment by humans taking into account automation bias. If
             the individual or group evaluated demands you to give an explanation, fulfill your
             accountability by accepting the demand (“1) Human-centric,” “6) Transparency,”
             “7) Accountability”).
            In accordance with the characteristics of the AI systems and services to be used,
             set up a help desk, at the reasonable level, that handles inquiries from relevant
             stakeholders to give explanations and receive requests in cooperation with the AI
             providers (“7) Accountability”).

    ➢    U-7) ii. Effective use of provided documents and conformity to agreements
          Properly store and use the documents about the AI systems and services provided
              by the AI providers (“7) Accountability”).
          Conform to the service agreements specified by the AI providers (“7)
              Accountability”).

  Incidentally, AI business users who handle advanced AI systems should comply with “D. Common
Guiding Principles for AI business actors involved in advanced AI systems” in Part 2 as follows:
⚫   I) to XI): Comply with them within the appropriate scope.
⚫   XII):      Comply with it.




                                               37
