III-3-7       Information Technology (IT) System Risk


III-3-7-1       Information Technology (IT) System Risk


III-3-7-1-1          Purpose and Significance


  Information technology (IT) system risk is the risk of loss incurred in customers and banks because of
system adequacies, including a computer system breakdown or malfunction, or because of inappropriate
or illegal use of computer systems. As IT systems used by banks are becoming increasingly advanced and
complex in line with the integration of computer systems due to mergers and other management
restructuring and an expansion of the range of new products and services, the risk of illegal access and leaks
of important information has been increasing further with an expansion of computer networks.
  In particular, computer systems of major banks, which are originally equipped with advanced functions,
tend to be large in scale and complicated in configuration because they are required to process a huge
volume of data. In addition, as the system configuration and operational environment become more
complicated due to cumulated management restructuring, major banks are particularly required to address
various issues related to IT systems appropriately. If a system failure or cyber-security incident occurred in
a major bank, it would have an extremely huge impact not only on users’ social and economic lives and


                                                     268
corporations’ economic activities but also on Japan’s economy as a whole. In addition, the impact would
not be limited to a single bank but spread over the whole financial system. The secure and stable operation
of IT systems is a basic premise for ensuring public confidence in the financial settlement system and banks,
and that is why it is extremely important to enhance and strengthen the control environment for managing
IT system risk.
  Furthermore, taking into account the recent change in environments surrounding the financial industry,
the IT strategies of financial institutions are, now, key factors affecting their business models. As such,
there are increasing needs in financial institutions to consider business strategies integrally with IT
strategies. From these viewpoints, it is very important that “IT governance, ” which is a framework
allowing the management of a bank to show leadership and to create corporate value by linking information
technologies to management strategies, works properly and well.
Note:     "Cybersecurity incidents" refer to instances of cybersecurity being threatened by so-called
          “cyberattacks,” including unauthorized intrusion, theft, modification and destruction of data,
          failure or malfunction of information systems, execution of illegal computer programs, and DDoS
          attacks, committed via the Internet through malicious use of information communication
          networks and information systems.
(Reference) Discussion Paper on Dialogues and Practices Regarding IT Governance at Financial
              Institutions (June, 2019)


III-3-7-1-2           Major Supervisory Viewpoints


 (1) Recognition of IT system risk
    (i)   Whether officers and employees, including the representative director, have fully recognized the
          importance of IT system risk, reviewed it regularly, and formulated a basic policy for the bank-
          wide management of IT system risk.
    (ii) Whether the representative director has recognized that prevention and efforts for rapid recovery
          from an IT system failure and cybersecurity incident (hereinafter referred to as "system failure")
          is an important issue for the management of the bank, and developed an appropriate control
          environment.
    (iii) Whether the board of directors has appointed a person who has sufficient knowledge and
          experience relating to the IT system to properly perform the relevant work as a director who takes
          overall responsibility for the IT system upon fully recognizing the importance of managing the
          IT system risk.
    (iv) Whether the representative director and directors (or executive officers in cases where the bank
          is a company with a nominating committee, etc.) have determined their specific responsibility to
          assume and the response to take in case of a crisis in which a system failure occurs.
           Also, whether they conduct drills giving directions by themselves and ensure the effectiveness
           thereof.


                                                     269
(2) Control environment for managing IT system risk
    (i)   Whether the board of directors has established the risk management environment while fully
          understanding that, due to the highly networked computer system, if risk becomes apparent, the
          impact will cause a chain reaction, spread widely and seriously, and badly affect the management
          of the bank.
    (ii) Whether the bank has established a basic policy for managing IT system risk, and whether the
          basic policy for managing IT system risk contains the security policy (a basic policy for proper
          protection of information assets of an organization) and the outsourcing policy.
    (iii) Whether the bank is basing the details of its control environment for managing IT system risk on
          criteria that allow it to judge objective levels of its details.
             Also, whether the bank revises, on a continual basis, its control environment for managing IT
          system risk according to the identification and analysis of system failures, results of
          implementation of risk management, progress of technology, etc.


(3) Assessment of IT system risk
    (i)   Whether the section in charge of managing IT system risk recognizes and assesses risks
          periodically and in a timely manner by recognizing the fact that risks are becoming diverse due
          to changes in the external environment, such as seen in the examples of system failures induced
          by large-scale transactions as a result of increased customer channels and efforts to enhance
          information networks that bring about more diverse and broad-based impacts.
             Also, whether it takes sufficient measures to address the risks that have been identified.
    (ii) Whether the section in charge of managing IT system risk checks and manages the upper limit
          of the transactions through the computer system, such as the number of unrecorded transactions
          in a bank book per account to be kept in the system, and whether it reviews the countermeasures
          from the IT system aspect and the administrative work aspect in cases where the transactions
          exceed the upper limit.
    (iii) Whether the section in charge of product development cooperates with the section in charge of
          managing IT system risk at the time of introduction of a new product or alternation of the content
          of an existing product, and also, whether the section in charge of managing IT system risk
          evaluates the relevant IT system regardless of whether the system is newly developed or not.


 (4) Management of information security
    (i)   Whether the bank has made a developed policy, instilled organizational readiness, and introduced
          in-house rules and a developed internal control environment, in order to appropriately manage
          information assets. Also, whether it is making continuous efforts to improve its information
          security control environment through the PDCA cycle, taking notice of illegal incidents or lapses
          at other companies.


                                                        270
(ii) Whether the bank manages information security by designating individuals responsible for it and
        clarifying their roles/responsibilities in an effort to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and
        availability of information. Also, whether the individuals responsible for information security are
        tasked with handling the security of IT system, data, and network management.
(iii) Whether the bank takes measures to prevent unauthorized use of computer systems,
        unauthorized access, and intrusion by malicious computer programs, such as computer viruses.
(iv) Whether the bank identifies important customer information that it is responsible for protecting
        in a comprehensive manner, keeps its records, and manages them.
          Whether the scope of important customer information to be identified by the bank covers
        information and data used in the course of business operations or stored in IT systems and kept
        by external contractors and includes data, for example, as listed below;
      ・ Data stored in the areas within the IT system that are not used in ordinary operations;
      ・ Data output from the IT system for analyzing system failures; and
      ・ Transaction logs stored in ATMs (including those outside of branches), etc.
(v)     Whether the bank assesses important points and risks regarding important customer information
        that has been identified.
           Also, whether it has developed rules to manage information, such as that listed below, in
         accordance with the importance and risks of each information;
      ・ Rules to encrypt or mask information;
      ・ Rules for utilizing information; and
      ・ Rules on handling data storage media, etc.
(vi) Whether the bank has introduced measures to discourage or prevent unauthorized access,
        unauthorized retrieval, data leakage, etc. such as those listed below, for important customer
        information;
      ・ Provision of access rights only to employees who need access according to their authority;
      ・ Storage and monitoring of access logs; and
      ・ Introduction of mutual checking functions, such as by separating the individuals in charge of
          development and those responsible for operations, system administrators and system users, etc.
(vii) Whether the bank has established rules for controlling confidential information, such as
        encryption and masking. Also, whether it has developed rules regarding the management of
        encryption programs, encryption keys, and design specifications for encryption programs.
           Note that "confidential information" refers to any information that may cause damage or loss
         to customers if it is disclosed or stolen, including PINs, passwords, credit card information.
(viii) Whether the bank gives due consideration to the necessity of holding/disposing of, restricting
        access to, and taking outside, of confidential information, and treats such information in a stricter
        manner.
(ix) Whether the bank periodically monitors its information assets to see whether they are managed
        properly according to management rules, etc. and reviews the control environment on an ongoing


                                                   271
            basis.
     (x) Whether the bank conducts security education (including security education at external
            contractors) to all officers and employees in order to raise awareness of information security.


(5) Management of cybersecurity
    (i)     Whether the board of directors, etc. has developed the necessary control environment upon
            recognizing the importance of cybersecurity amid increasingly sophisticated and cunning
            cyberattacks.
    (ii) Whether the bank has developed the control environment for managing cybersecurity, such as
            those listed below, in addition to making the organization more secure and introducing in-house
            rules.
          ・ Monitoring systems against cyberattacks;
          ・ Systems for reporting and public relations when cyberattacks occur;
          ・ Emergency measures by an in-house Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT)
             and systems for early warning; and
          ・ Systems for collecting and sharing information through information-sharing organizations, etc.
    (iii) Whether the bank has developed a multi-layered defense system against cyberattacks that
            combines security measures respectively for inbound perimeter control, internal network security
            control, and outbound perimeter control.
          ・ Security measures for inbound perimeter control (e.g., introduction of a ﬁrewall, anti-virus
             software, instruction detection system, instruction protection system etc.);
          ・ Security measures for internal network security control (e.g., proper management of privileged
             IDs/passwords, deletion of unnecessary IDs, monitoring of execution of certain commands,
             etc.); and
          ・ Security measures for outbound perimeter control (e.g., retrieval and analysis of
             communication/event logs, detecting/blocking inappropriate communication, etc.)
    (iv) Whether measures such as those listed below are implemented to prevent spreading damage
            when cyberattacks occur.
          ・ Identiﬁcation and blocking of IP addresses from which the cyberattacks originate;
          ・ Functions to automatically decentralize access against DDoS attacks; and
      ・Temporary suspension of the entire or part of the system, etc.
    (v)     Whether necessary measures for vulnerabilities in the system, such as updating of the operating
            system and application of security patches, are introduced in a timely manner.
    (vi) Whether the bank, as part of cybersecurity measures, assesses its security levels by using relevant
            tests on network intrusion, vulnerability scanning, or penetration tests, etc. and make efforts to
            improve security.
    (vii) In cases where the bank executes transactions via communication methods such as the internet
            without any face-to-face contact, whether the bank takes the security measures described in III-


                                                       272
          3-8-2(2) or III-3-9-2(2).
             For information, the following cases of security measures using authentication methods and
           anti-fraud measures are described in the agreements or guidelines, etc. of the Japanese Bankers
           Association.


        ・ Authentication methods that do not rely on ﬁxed IDs/passwords, such as variable passwords
            and digital certificates;
        ・ Transaction authentication through multiple channels by using, for example, devices other than
            a PC web browser used in transactions, such as a mobile phone;
        ・ Transaction authentication using transaction signatures by means of a hardware token, etc.;
        ・ Adoption of methods to store digital certiﬁcates on media or devices separate from PCs used
            in transactions, such as IC cards;
        ・ Provision of security software that allows users to detect and remove viruses, etc. when
            executing transactions;
        ・ Introduction of software that allows the bank to detect virus infection of the user's PC and issue
            a warning;
        ・ Introduction of a system that allows the bank to detect unauthorized log-ins, irregular
            transactions, etc. and promptly notify such anomalies to users.
    Note: it is desirable to avoid using authentication methods on the internet that use information with
             a small number of combinations like a cash card PIN as a storage element.
   (viii) In order to prevent unauthorized use of internet banking, etc., whether appropriate procedures
          are established to not allow unauthorized registration and change of information used for
          notification of depositors or personal identification, such as a telephone number or an email
          address.
  (ix) Whether the bank has developed contingency plans against potential cyberattacks, and conducts
          drills and reviews such plans. Also, whether it participates in industry-wide exercises as necessary.
  (x)     Whether the bank has formulated and implemented plans for fostering and developing human
          resources responsible for cybersecurity.


(6) IT system planning/development/management
  (i)     Whether the bank has clearly established a policy for IT system strategy as part of its business
          strategy, and then established medium- to long-term development plans.
          Also, whether such medium- to long-term development plans have been approved by the board
        of directors.
  (ii) Whether the bank has been making continuous efforts to identify the risks inherent in the current
          IT system and to make investment in maintaining and improving it systematically.
  (iii) Whether rules to authorize plans, development, and transitions of IT system development
          projects are clearly established.


                                                     273
    (iv) Whether the bank appoints and assigns a responsible person to each IT system development
          project and manages the project according to the development plan.
    (v)   In developing IT systems, whether the bank creates test planning and conducts tests in an
          appropriate and sufficient manner, such as by involving user divisions.
    (vi) With regard to development of human resources, whether the bank creates and implements
          specific plans for developing human resources with expertise for succession of the current IT
          system structure and technology.


(7) IT system audit
    (i)   Whether an internal audit division that is independent from the IT systems division conducts
          periodic audits of IT systems.
    (ii) Whether the bank conducts internal audits by computer system experts and utilizes external
          audits by IT system auditors, etc.
    (iii) Whether the audit covers all business operations related to IT system risk.
    (iv) Whether the results of the IT system audit are reported to the board of directors in a proper
          manner.


 (8) Management of outsourcing relating to IT system
    (i)   In selection of outsourcing contractors (including system-related subsidiaries), whether the bank
          selects after evaluation and consideration based on selection standards.
    (ii) In the outsourcing contract, whether the bank stipulates the division of roles and responsibilities
          with the outsourcing contractor, audit authority, subcontracting procedures, and level of services
          provided, etc. Also, whether the bank presents the rules and security requirements to the
          outsourcing contractor so that its officers and employees comply, and stipulates them in the
          contract, etc.
    (iii) Whether risk management is carried out properly in outsourced IT system work (including work
          sub-outsourced).
             In particular, where the bank outsources IT system work to multiple contractors, whether the
          bank has developed a control environment upon fully understanding the situation in which
          related administrative work becomes more complicated,
             In cases where the bank outsources IT system administration, whether the bank properly
          manage the risk thereof in the same manner as outsourcing of IT system work.
    (iv) Whether the bank, as an entrustor, periodically conducts monitoring to ensure that outsourced
          work (including further sub-outsourced work) is carried out appropriately.
             Also, whether the bank takes necessary measures not to leave everything to contractors by, for
          example, deploying its staff as an entrustor at a contractor office, etc. In particular, whether the
          bank receives reports on the status of internal management, and development and operation of
          the shared system center.


                                                    274
                Also, for developing a shared system, etc., whether a control environment is in place that
              allows the bank, as an entrustor, to monitor and track the status of customer data being
              processed at outsourcing contractors.
       (v)   Whether the bank conducts audits on its important outsourcing contractors such as the shared
             system center by its internal audit division or IT system auditors, etc.
  Note:         The abovementioned items would apply to cases where the bank uses an external service such
                as integrated ATM switching service.


(9) Contingency plan
       (i)   Whether the bank has developed a contingency plan and established arrangements and
             procedures for emergency situations.
       (ii) When developing a contingency plan, whether its content is based on information that could be
             judged at an objective level (e.g., "Manual for the Development of Contingency Plans in
             Financial Institutions (Plans for Measures in the Event of Emergencies)" compiled by the Center
             for Financial Industry Information Systems).
       (iii) When developing a contingency plan, whether the bank assumes not only contingencies due to
             natural disasters but also system failures due to internal or external factors.
                Also, whether the bank assumes sufficient risk scenarios, such as a case of major delay in batch
              processing.
       (iv) Whether the bank reviews assumed scenarios in its contingency plan by, for example, taking into
             consideration case studies of system failures at other financial institutions and results of
             deliberations at the Central Disaster Management Council, etc.
       (v)   Whether the bank periodically conducts drills on the basis of the contingency plan at the
             corporate level, jointly with outsourcing contractors, etc., such as the shared system center.
       (vi) Whether the bank introduced off-site backup systems, etc. in advance for important systems
             whose failure could seriously affect business operations, and has developed a control
             environment to promptly continue business operations in the event of disasters and system
             failures, etc.


(10)         Response to IT system failures
       (i)   Whether the bank has taken appropriate measures to avoid causing unnecessary confusion
             among customers when system failures occur.
              Also, whether the bank has developed a control environment to take necessary measures
              accordingly, upon assuming a worst-case scenario in preparation for system failures.
       (ii) Whether the bank has clarified reporting procedures and the framework of command and
             supervision including at the outsourcing contractors in preparation for system failures.
       (iii) In cases where a system failure that would significantly affect its business operations occurs,
             whether the bank has developed a control environment to promptly notify the representative


                                                        275
           director and other directors and report the maximum risk that could occur under the worst-case
           scenario (for example, if there is a possibility that the failure could gravely affect their customers,
           the reporting persons promptly report the maximum possibility without underestimation of the
           risk).
                In addition, whether the bank has developed a control environment to launch a task force
            where necessary, and the representative director and other directors give appropriate
            instructions and orders, and promptly resolve the issues.
    (iv) Whether the bank has made mutual support for preparation of system failures clear, such as
           through prior registration in order to promptly gather human resources with know-how and
           experience from the IT systems division, other divisions, and outsourcing contractors.
    (v)    In cases where system failures occur, whether the bank has published the content and causes of
           the failure, expected recovery time, etc. and has established a call center to properly respond to
           inquiries from their customers where necessary.
                Also, whether the bank has made the methodology of providing information to the relevant
            business divisions in preparation for system failures clear.
    (vi) Whether the bank has conducted analysis of causes of system failures, investigation about the
           impact until recovery, corrective action, and preventive measures for recurrence in a proper
           manner.
                Also, whether the bank has periodically analyzed tendencies of factors that have led to system
            failures and taken measures according to them.
    (vii) Whether the bank has established a systematic framework to minimize impacts of system failures
           such as a system to bypass the affected part.
 (Reference) As an example of reference materials relating to IT system risk, “FISC Security Guidelines
                 on Computer Systems for Banking and Related Financial Institutions” (The Center for
                 Financial Industry Information Systems) may be taken.


III-3-7-1-3             Supervisory Methods and Measures


 (1) When system failure occurred
     (i) General response
          (A)    Upon recognizing the occurrence of an IT system failure or cybersecurity incident, the bank
                 will be required to immediately notify the authority of the fact and then to submit a report
                 to the authority in the form of the “Report on Occurrence of System Failure, etc.” (Form
                 4-45 in the Forms and Reference Information).
                      In addition, the bank will also be required to make a report upon recovery of the system
                    or identification of the cause of the IT system failure. Even if the causes are not identified,
                    the bank will be required to make a report on the status within one month from the
                    occurrence of the IT system failure.


                                                           276
      Note:        IT system failures that should be reported:
                  Failure or trouble that occurs in the IT systems and devices (both hardware and software)
              currently used by the bank, regardless of the cause and;
            a.    that delays or suspends, or may delay or suspend repayment of deposits or the settlement
                  function of funds transfer transactions;
            b. that affects or may affect its cash flow and grasp of financial situations, etc.; or
            c.    that may otherwise be deemed similar to the above in the course of business.
                     This reporting requirement, however, does not apply, provided that, even when a part
                   of an IT system or device fails or has problems, there is no substantial impact or damage
                   because the affected part is able to be promptly replaced by another system or device (e.g.,
                   cases where even when some ATMs are out of service, users can access banking services
                   at other ATMs or the counter of the same branch or nearby branch.)
                     In the meantime, the bank will be required to make a report, even though failure or
                   trouble does not actually occur, when its customers or business operations are affected or
                   likely to be affected because it receives an advance notice of a cyberattack or it found a
                   cyberattack in its IT system.
      (B)        The FSA will require the bank to make an additional report pursuant to Article 24 of the
                 Banking Act, when it deems necessary, and if a serious problem is found, the FSA will issue
                 a business improvement order pursuant to Article 26 of the Banking Act.
     (ii) Emergency response
            In particular, when a large-scale system failure has occurred, or when it takes considerable time
        for the bank to identify the causes of the failure, the FSA will require the bank to make a prompt
        identification of the causes and recovery as well as to make a report pursuant to Article 24 of the
        Banking Act, while immediately monitoring the status of implementing a contingency plan, such
        as general publication of the facts of the failure and customer relations at the branches.
            Additionally, in cases where there is uncertainty about recovery from a large-scale system
        failure which is seriously affecting market transactions and a settlement system, such as ATM
        transactions, bank transfers, or remittance of salaries, the FSA will take actions to consider issuing
        a business improvement order promptly based on Article 26 of the Banking Act.


(2) Updates of IT systems
       When the bank intends to update its important IT systems, etc., the FSA, if it deems necessary,
     will require the bank to make a report based on Article 24 of the Banking Act and confirm the
     planning and progress as well as appropriateness and feasibility of the project management thereof.


(3) When a problem is found
       As a result of on-site inspection results, etc., a problem relating to a bank’s control environment
     for IT system risk is revealed, the FSA will require the bank to submit detailed reports based on


                                                      277
      Article 24 of the Banking Act, if it deems necessary. If a serious problem is found, the FSA will issue
      a business improvement order or implement any other measures based on Article 26 of the Banking
      Act.


(4) Response to outsourcing contractors
        When it deems necessary, for example, in cases where there is a concern that outsourcing
      contractors fail to properly operate outsourced work relating to IT systems, the FSA will take actions
      based on III-3-3-4-3.


III-3-7-2      Security for ATM System


III-3-7-2-1          Purpose and Significance


  The ATM system provides various banking services in a simple and prompt manner, and it is very
convenient for customers and widely used by them. On the other hand, transactions via the ATM system,
which are executed without face-to-face contact, have inherent risks, including the difficulty of confirming
irregular transactions.
  Financial institutions are required to manage customers’ assets safely in the course of providing financial
services. They are, therefore, encouraged to take sufficient information security measures for the ATM
system from the viewpoint of ensuring customer protection, while securing users’ convenience. In this
regard, the Depositor Protection Act (Act on Protection of Depositors from Unauthorized ATM
Withdrawals Using Counterfeit or Stolen Cards, etc.) stipulates that banks are responsible for development
of necessary IT systems, provision of relevant information to customers, raising of their awareness, and
dissemination of knowledge among them to prevent the occurrence of unauthorized ATM withdrawals, etc.
using counterfeit or stolen cards, etc.
  Additionally, banks need to take security measures considering the fact that if a certain financial
institution leaves its ATMs vulnerable in security, it may adversely affect other financial institutions
because ATMs are interconnected among financial institutions via the integrated ATM switching service.


III-3-7-2-2          Major Supervisory Viewpoints


 (1) Development of internal control environment
       In light of the changing situation with more sophisticated crime techniques, etc., whether the bank
    positions preventive measures against illegal withdrawals using counterfeit cash cards, etc. as one of
    the highest priority management issues that the bank must address and implements necessary reviews
    at the board of directors to improve the security level. Also, to secure sound and proper ATM system
    operations, whether the bank has each division share information on the current status thereof and
    has a control environment to address it in the entire bank.


                                                    278
      Whether the bank has developed the necessary control environment after conducting reviews
    according to the characteristics of its customers and operations based on the situation of crime
    occurrence.
      Furthermore, whether the so-called “PDCA cycle” is functioning in terms of risk analysis and
    security measures, which is composed of plan, do, check, and act.
 (Reference) PDCA cycle shown at the Study Group on Cyber Security
       (i)   Identifying and understanding risks attributable to financial institutions (development of
             internal control environment, framework of IT system development, attributes of IT system
             and outsourcing of IT system configuration, etc.);
       (ii) Identifying and understanding risks regarding use of ATMs (upper limit of transaction
             amount, operating hours, locations of ATMs, crime occurrence in areas surrounding the
             ATMs, etc.);
       (iii) Determining the priority as to what kind of crime or risk should be addressed based on the
             risk characteristics mentioned above;
       (iv) Implementation of measures; and
       (v) Review of the effect of measures and improvement.


(2) Securing security
      Whether the bank has evaluated the security level of its cash cards and ATM system according to
    relevant criteria. And whether the bank has taken proper measures to keep it safe and proper by
    reviewing it from the IT system aspect and the technology aspect based on the results of the evaluation.
    For this, whether the bank has taken measures suitable to the characteristics of its customers and
    operations while identifying the risk arising at the time of structuring the IT system and each phase of
    use thereof based on the discussions at the Study Group on Cyber Security. Also, whether the bank
    aims at improving security as a whole rather than taking individual measures in an impromptu manner.
      Whether the bank has taken proper measures to prevent unauthorized withdrawals including
    introduction of appropriate authentication technology, prevention of information leaks, and early
    detection of irregular transactions based on the Depositor Protection Act. In this case, whether the
    bank has taken care not to impose an excessive burden on customers, and makes efforts to avoid
    causing inconvenience for customers by assuring compatibility, etc.
      Whether the bank has taken security measures according to the risk if high-amount transactions
    with high risk are available at ATMs. In particular, whether the bank has considered methods to
    enhance the security of magnetic cards which are pointed out to be vulnerable in terms of security.
    For an internationally active bank, whether it has implemented necessary reviews while considering
    measures in line with international security trends.
(Reference 1) As an example of the security standards, “FISC Security Guidelines on Computer Systems
              for Financial Institutions” (The Center for Financial Industry Information Systems) may
              be taken.


                                                     279
(Reference 2) Materials at the Study Group on Cyber Security can be used as references in identifying and
               understanding the risks.


(3) Response to customers
      Whether the bank has established a control environment to provide sufficient customer explanation
    about various risks associated with use of cash cards, such as skimming, theft of PIN number and card,
    use of easily assumable PIN number, possibility of damage expansion (against which the bank could
    introduce an upper limit of the amount to be transferred or withdrawn at an ATM), and other problems
    caused from having too many cards.
      Whether the bank has established a control environment for promptly receiving and processing
    notifications from customers. Also, whether the bank has developed a control environment for
    promptly disseminating necessary information to customers (including public announcement) when
    needed. In particular, when it is possible to identify customers who are likely to be victimized by a
    crime, whether the bank takes measures to minimize damage by informing them of such concern as
    soon as possible.
      Whether the rules concerning compensation for loss or damage caused by unauthorized withdrawal
    are clear and specific as much as possible based on the Depositor Protection Act. Also, whether a
    control environment is in place to disseminate and make the contents of the rules known to customers
    sufficiently.
     (i) Whether the bank conducts a necessary review of the policies and standards relating to response
          to customers and cooperation with investigative authorities after a crime occurs in consideration
          of the bank’s own stance toward anti-crime measures, etc.
     (ii) Whether the bank has determined uniform rules and procedures of compensation for loss or
          damage caused by unauthorized withdrawals, if any, in the terms and conditions of transaction
          or the customer policy, etc.
     (iii) Whether the bank has a control environment in place to respond to customers properly and
          promptly by establishing a dedicated customer contact center, etc. In asking victimized
          customers for cooperation in providing information, whether the bank is mindful of their age,
          physical and mental conditions, etc.
              Whether the bank properly preserves the records of unauthorized withdrawals and is prepared
          to cooperate sincerely with customers and investigative authorities when asked by them to offer
          the recorded materials, etc.


(4) Actions when operation and maintenance of the ATM system are outsourced
      When the bank has outsourced its ATM system, whether the bank reviews the outsourcing risk and
    takes necessary security measures.


III-3-7-2-3         Supervisory Method and Actions


                                                   280
(1) When crime occurred
        Promptly after recognizing an illegal withdrawal using a counterfeit or stolen cash card, the bank
    shall be required to make a report to the authorities in the form of a “crime report.”


(2) When a problem is found
        If inspection results, crime reports, etc. reveal doubt over the bank’s control environment relating
    to the security and anti-crime measures for its ATM system, supervisors shall require the bank to
    submit additional reports under Article 24 of the Banking Act, as needed. If a problem is still found
    from the viewpoint of customer protection, such as that the bank fails to conduct a necessary review
    of anti-crime measures and take action after the crime occurs, or that many crimes are reported,
    supervisors shall take such action as issuing a business improvement order under Article 26 of the
    Banking Act.
Note:       When the bank has outsourced its ATM system, supervisors will take actions under III-3-3-4-3,
            as needed.
(Reference)
   ・ “Final Report of Study Group on Counterfeit Cash Card Problems” (June 24, 2005 by Study Group
        on Counterfeit Cash Card Problems)
   ・ “Agreement on Protection of Depositors concerning Counterfeit/Stolen Cash Cards” (October 6,
        2005 by the Japanese Bankers Association)
   ・ “Crime Prevention Standards for Financial Institutions” (National Police Agency)
   ・ “The JBA’s IC cash card standard speciﬁcation” (the Japanese Bankers Association)


III-3-7-3        Use of Interbank System/Network


III-3-7-3-1              Purpose and Significance


  Currently, the interbank (including financial institutions) system/network serves as an essential
infrastructure for banks to settle financial transactions and to maintain CD/ATM online alliance with other
banks and financial institutions. If a failure occurred in the system/network, the impact would spread over
the whole settlement system and all services provided to customers. That is why it is critically important to
enhance the risk management environment relating to this system/network.


III-3-7-3-2              Major Supervisory Viewpoints


(1) When using services of the interbank system/network including the integrated ATM switching service
     or the Zengin Data Telecommunication System, etc., whether the bank has implemented proper risk
     management in the same manner as when it outsources its own IT systems.


                                                        281
(2) In particular, when the IT system of such external service is renewed or changed, whether the bank
     fully evaluates and confirms that proper actions are in place on the system both at the administrator
     of such external service and at the bank in order not to cause any inconvenience or impact on its
     customers and operations. And, when needed, whether it requires the administrator of the external
     service to take proper actions.


(3) In particular, when the bank plays a leading role in operation, renewal, or change of such external
     service, whether it has developed proper and sufficient control environments for risk management and
     project management together with the administrator of such external service in order not to adversely
     affect customer services or the settlement system in Japan.


III-3-7-3-3            Supervisory Methods and Measures


  If inspection results, etc. reveal doubt over a bank’s sound and proper business operation relating to the
system/network, the bank shall be required to submit detailed reports under Article 24 of the Banking Act,
as needed. If a serious problem is found, supervisors shall issue a business improvement order or implement
any other measures under Article 26 of the Banking Act. Also when the bank plays a leading role in
operation, renewal, or change of such external service, if a doubt arises relating to the risk management
environment for such system network, the same actions shall be taken.
Note:       Among administrators of the external system/network, with respect to those who fall under the
            scope of outsourcing contractors, if there is concern about their business operation, supervisors
            shall take actions under III-3-3-4-3.


