Guidelines for the Prevention of
    Internal Improprieties
        in Organizations




   Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan
                                                     Table of Contents
1.      Background ........................................................................................................... 3

2.      Overview................................................................................................................ 5

     2-1. Basic policies to prevent internal improprieties ................................................... 5

     2-2. Composition of and Ways to Use these Guidelines ............................................ 5

     2-3. The Importance of Constructing Systems for Internal Impropriety
     Countermeasures ...................................................................................................... 7

     2-4. Systems for Internal Impropriety Countermeasures ............................................ 8

3.      Definition of Terms, and Related Laws ................................................................ 11

     3-1. Terms ............................................................................................................... 11

     3-2. Related Laws ................................................................................................... 12

4.      Model Management for preventing Internal Impropriety ....................................... 14

     4-1. Basic Policies (Responsibilities of the Top Manager and Governance) ............ 16

     4-2. Asset Management (Designation as Confidential, Designation of Access
     Privileges, Access Administration, etc.) ................................................................... 21

     4-3. Physical Management ...................................................................................... 28

     4-4. Technological and Operational Management ................................................... 34

     4-5. Securing Evidence ........................................................................................... 40

     4-6. Human Management ........................................................................................ 43

     4-7. Compliance ...................................................................................................... 46

     4-8. Workplace Environments.................................................................................. 48

     4-9. Follow-up Measures ......................................................................................... 51

     4-10. Organizational Management .......................................................................... 53

Appendix I: Internal Impropriety Case Studies ............................................................ 55

Appendix II: Internal Impropriety Check Sheet ............................................................ 60

Appendix III: Q&A ....................................................................................................... 66

Appendix IV: Relationship with Other Guidelines, etc.................................................. 71

Appendix V: Examples of Basic Policies ..................................................................... 76




                                                                 1
Appendix VI: Five basic policies and twenty-five classifications to prevent internal
improprieties ............................................................................................................... 77

Appendix VII: Countermeasures Classification............................................................ 78




                                                               2
1. Background
   Recently, information security incidents involving internal improprieties that threaten the
very business of companies or other organizations have drawn attention. Typical examples
include cases of employees or officers improperly selling customer data, resulting in
large-scale leakages of personal information, and cases of employees improperly removing
product information from a company when retiring resulting in the leakage of technical
information. In addition to these there are cases involving employees who, acting without
malice, take information home from the company without authorization in order to work at
home, and then unintentionally leak the information from a home PC. Such information
security incidents involving internal improprieties occur without fail every year which is being
widely reported.

   According to surveys by Japan Network Security Association (JNSA) which is a specified
nonprofit corporation 1, one feature of incidents involving internal improprieties is that from
2005 to 2010 the number of incidents occurring due to internal crime or acts of internal
impropriety made up only 1% of all the incidents involving leakage of personal data, but
about 25% (a quarter) of all personal information leakages were the result of internal
impropriety. As such, with the damage per incident greater than that from external attack,
each occurrence inflicts a major impact on a business. Moreover, according to surveys by
the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry 2 , the vectors for leakage in companies
experiencing leakage of trade secrets were reported as "leakage caused by departing
(full-time) employees (50.3%)," "leakage caused by mistakes by active employees, etc.
(26.9%)," and "leakage caused by current employees for motives of financial gain, etc.
(10.9%)." As seen by this, leakages of trade information with value in maintaining
competitiveness are almost entirely due to inside parties. For this reason, internal
improprieties are viewed as one of the threats that organizations face, and must be
addressed wholeheartedly by the top manager and management teams as a key
management issue.

   Incidents concerning internal improprieties tend to be handled within the organization for
reasons including concerns over negative publicity or lack of coordination among parties
concerned, and rarely become known outside the organization. As such, it is likely that in
addition to those incidents that are disclosed in the media or in courts, there are also many
incidents that are not brought to courts or which remain undisclosed cases of internal rules
infractions. As sharing of information about internal improprieties among organizations is
thus difficult, the status of such incidents in society is not well known, and it is difficult to
consider the causes of and effective countermeasures for internal improprieties beyond the
boundaries of the organization. As such consideration is not performed beyond the
boundaries of the organization, at present each organization enacts countermeasures
based on its own experiences. Moreover, interview surveys 3 by the Information-technology
Promotion Agency, Japan (hereafter "IPA") have revealed companies in which incidents
have occurred for the reason that such risks were underestimated and no measure was
enacted. Underestimation by companies like this is due to the lack of sharing of information
about internal improprieties and awareness of such threats. In fact, believing that "internal
improprieties won't happen in our company" or "our employees wouldn't commit improper
actions," these companies have underestimated their risks. As such, when
1
  "Survey Results on Information Security Incidents – Personal Information Leaks," JNSA
2
  "Questionnaire Survey Concerning the State of Management of Trade Secrets," Survey Results
(Definitive Version), Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
  URL: http://www.meti.go.jp/policy/economy/chizai/chiteki/pdf/121211HP.pdf
3
  Report on Survey of Incidents Due to Improper Activity by Organization Insiders
  URL：http://www.ipa.go.jp/security/fy23/reports/insider/index.html


                                                 3
countermeasures are considered and decided strictly within organizations, those
organizations may fail to realize the need for countermeasures in the first place.

  In the absence of internal impropriety countermeasures, the organization may fail to
prevent incidents. Furthermore, incidents may go unnoticed until the damage spreads to the
parties involved, while the inability to resolve incidents due to uncertainty over their causes
can prove a hindrance to follow-up measures. Moreover, even if the perpetrators of the
improper actions can be identified, there may be cases in which duty of care has been lax,
rendering disciplinary action invalid or making prosecution difficult.

   In order to help organizations prevent internal improprieties, IPA created "Guidelines for
the Prevention of Internal Improprieties in Organizations" (hereafter "these Guidelines") and
made it available to the public. The content of these Guidelines enables the preparation of
effective internal impropriety countermeasures in companies (especially small- and
medium-sized businesses) that have not yet thought about, or have not known how to
address, internal impropriety countermeasures.

Upon revision of September 2014 (ver. 2.0)
   In the first half of 2014, security incidents caused by internal improprieties have been
successively reported: the incidents includes ex-employees leaked out technologies
overseas, employees illegally stole information; and eventually, an employee in a contract
company that provides services for a company involving educational business leaked out
extremely large amount of customer information. Effective countermeasures achieved
through analyzing these incidents have been incorporated in this guideline.

Three key points of revision for ver.2.0 are as follows.
・Strengthening top managers leaderships
・Strengthening supervision of entrusted information systems management and operation
・Addressing advancing information communication technology

  In accordance with the above strengthening of measures, we revised the internal
improprieties check sheet and added internal improprieties case studies to the list, and
created items lists for this guideline’s countermeasures related to personal information
protection.

About March 2015 revision (ver. 3.0)
   To make this guideline easy to use and more widely adopted, we incorporated requests
from organizations using this guideline and addressed the latest standards and policies for
information security.

Three key points of revision for ver.3.0 are as follows.
・Responding to requests from organizations using this guideline
・Conforming to revised ISMS standards (JIS Q 27001:2014) and fully revised Trade Secret
Management Guidelines
・Additions of basic policies and countermeasures classification that serve as references for
using this guideline




                                               4
2. Overview
  The chief aim of these Guidelines is the prevention of internal improprieties in
organizations. Taking into account the actual occurrence of internal improprieties, these
Guidelines also address early detection and prevention of the spread of damage following
occurrences.
  The targets for protection from internal improprieties are the information systems and
information managed by organizations, for information recording media other than paper.
However, the action of printing out information from information systems onto paper is also
covered by these Guidelines.


2-1. Basic policies to prevent internal improprieties
  This guideline applies ideas of “Situational Crime Prevention” 4 to internal improprieties
prevention, and is based on the following five basic policies5.
    ・Make crimes difficult (make harder to attempt)：
        Strength countermeasures to make criminal activities difficult to conduct.
    ・Raise risks to be caught (detected if committed)：
      Strength management and surveillance to raise risks to be caught.
    ・Reduce rewards from crimes (not worth doing)：
        Hide or remove targets, or make it unprofitable to prevent crimes.
    ・Reduce seduction of crimes (not to motivate)：
      Deter crimes by dampening enthusiasm to commit crimes.
    ・Not allow justification of crimes (not allow to excuse)：
        Get rid of reasonings for criminals’ self-justification of their activities.

    2-2. Composition of and Ways to Use these Guidelines
   These Guidelines are composed as described below, with a broad division into two parts:
"Section 1: Background" and "Section 2: Overview" as the first half, and "Section 3:
Definition of Terms, and Related Laws" and "Section 4: Model Management to prevent
Internal Improprieties" as the second half.




4
  An urban crime prevention theory which criminologists Cornish and Clarke proposed in 2003. It classifies
crime prevention countermeasures that should be conducted in five and further groups into twenty-five
crime prevention techniques. It is a crime prevention measure that aims at defining appropriate
“environment” controllable from outside by implementing supervisors, etc. to reduce criminal
chances/motives, and includes direct and indirect countermeasures for deterring and preventing crimes.
5
  Each basic policy is further groped into five. See Appendix VI for summarized corresponding
countermeasure case studies and related countermeasure items in this guideline.

                                                    5
                 Table 1 Composition and Assumed Readership of these Guidelines
         Composition of these Guidelines                     Assumed Readership
                                                        Top manager       Persons
                                                                        implementing
                                                                      countermeasures
         Section 1: Background                               ○               ○
         Section 2: Overview                                 ○               ○
         Section 3: Definition of Terms, and                 ○               ○
         Related Laws
         Section 4: Model Management to Prevent              ○*1                ○
         Internal Improprieties
         Appendix I: Internal Impropriety Case               -                 (2)
         Studies
         Appendix II: Internal Impropriety Check             -                (1)(4)
         Sheet
         Appendix III: Q&A                                   -                  ○
         Appendix IV: Relationship with Other                -                 (3)
         Guidelines, etc.
         Appendix V: Examples of Basic Policies              ○                  ○
         Appendix VI: Five Basic Policies and                ○                  ○
                   twenty-five classifications of
                   Internal Improprieties
         Appendix VII: Countermeasures                       -                (5)(6)
                   Classifications
        *1: See "4-1. Basic Policies"
        See Figure 1 regarding (1)-(6).

  Section 1 and Section 2 show the positioning and the way of using these Guidelines, and
is content aimed at all readers.
  These sections assume persons implementing countermeasures and the top manager (or
management team) 6 to be readers, and discuss the importance of preventing internal
improprieties, as well as an overview and the usage of these Guidelines. As for threats
posed by internal improprieties, see "Appendix I: Internal Impropriety Case Studies", and
you will better understand the importance of countermeasures.
  Section 4 offers content for the formulation of specific countermeasures by persons
implementing countermeasures, who are charged with countermeasures by the top
manager (or management team). However, the top manager will also need to look over
"Section 4, 4-1. Basic Policies" in order to understand his or her role in the organization.
Persons charged with countermeasures should first assess the status of their organization's
internal impropriety countermeasures by using the check sheet in Appendix II. To address
items for which countermeasures are insufficient according to the results of the check sheet,
consider specific countermeasures with reference to "4. Model Management to prevent
Internal Improprieties" and "Appendix III: Q&A." Figure 1 shows how to use these Guidelines
depending on what to consider.




6
  Top manager differs by company scale, management policies, and company form; in these Guidelines,
the term indicates the main director of the company.

                                                    6
            Figure 1 How to use these Guidelines depending on what to consider

2-3. The Importance of Constructing Systems for Internal Impropriety
     Countermeasures
  In order to make use of these Guidelines to effectively and efficiently prevent internal
improprieties, the top manager must bear responsibility inside and outside the organization
for internal impropriety countermeasures, and must be actively involved in promoting these.
The involvement of top managers plays an important role in improving awareness
concerning internal impropriety countermeasures in the organization, and in disseminating
implementation measures.
  In addition, organization-wide action is vital in the formulation and dissemination of specific
implementation measures. As the content of internal impropriety prevention countermeasures
extends to the work of multiple parties (or divisions) concerned, there must be cooperation
with these parties concerned in the formulation of implementation measures. Given that the
organization will formulate implementation measures concerning the protection of
information assets, it can be assumed that persons/divisions in charge of information

                                               7
systems, office work, and personnel will be involved. As an example, when changes are
made to work processes that handle information system, the information systems division or
the division in charge carries out the task, while the division or persons in charge of
personnel provide education on the changes. In addition, check by the legal affairs division
as to legal matters might also be necessary. In this way, in dissemination, education, etc.
concerning implementation measures, organizations must communicate directions
organization-wide so as to avoid oversight of countermeasures, and must create systems
enabling the summarization of implementation status and assessment by the top manager.

    2-4. Systems for Internal Impropriety Countermeasures
  As mentioned in Section 2-2, systems for internal impropriety countermeasures involve
various divisions within an organization, and the roles of "CEO" and "Supervising Manager"
who supervise and mediate those divisions become important.
  Internal impropriety countermeasures are closely related to the internal controls required
by the Companies Act 7 and the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act 8 in terms of risk
management and there are some overlaps between them in terms of systems. Hence, by
using a framework of existing internal controls, organizations can effectively and efficiently
construct internal impropriety countermeasures.
  The below explains how to construct internal impropriety countermeasures based on an
internal control framework.
  Explanations are given from the viewpoint of the roles of "CEO", "Supervising Manager"
and "Divisions/persons in charge". See Figure 2 that shows examples of systems for internal
impropriety countermeasures.

2-4-1. CEO
  In internal impropriety countermeasures, as in internal controls, organizations must
establish the role of the CEO. Budgetary and personnel authority is necessary for internal
impropriety countermeasures, as is the one who takes responsibility for implementing that
authority. In these Guidelines, that role is given to the CEO. The CEO formulates basic
policies for internal impropriety countermeasures, and determines these by resolution of the
Board of Directors. In addition, the CEO understands the management of the company, and
appoints a Supervising Manager whose role is to implement and promote specific
measures.

2-4-2. Supervising Manager
  Organizations shall establish a role for specifically promoting internal impropriety
countermeasures. In these Guidelines, that role is given to the Supervising Manager. The
Supervising Manager bears the role of mediating between business divisions and the top
manager while also implementing and checking specific countermeasures for the whole
organization. This mediator role is also given to an internal control committee, and so on in
internal control. So, when an internal control committee, and so on exist within an
organization, it may be advisable for a member of these to concurrently serve as the
Supervising Manager to reduce the workload of constructing systems.



7
  Under the Companies Act, important rules concerning the construction of internal control systems and
basic policies of systems, etc. are matters for deliberation by the Board of Directors (Companies Act, Article
348, item 3.iv; Article 362, item 4.vi; Article 416, item 1.i.e). Note that in these Guidelines, when no Board of
Directors exists in a company, the explanation applies to matters decided by Director(s).
8
  The U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX Act, and the Japanese J-SOX Act similarly call for
construction of internal controls.

                                                       8
2-4-3. Appointment of the Supervising Manager
  It is not necessary for all companies or organizations to establish an internal control
committee and so on for the purpose of internal impropriety countermeasures. In the case of
small-scale companies, systems relating to internal control are often insufficient, with no
internal control committee and so on in place. Even in such a case, it is possible to prepare
systems for internal impropriety countermeasures by newly appointing a Supervising
Manager responsible for internal impropriety countermeasures.
  Depending upon the scale and form of the company, the CISO 9 , CPO 10 or the top
manager (CEO) may double as Supervising Manager. As an example, when the scale of a
company is relatively small, the top manager has more of an organization-wide view than is
possible in a large-scale company. As a result, the top manager can enact fast and effective
countermeasures by directly undertaking internal impropriety countermeasures. In such a
case, it may be possible for the top manager to concurrently serve as CEO and Supervising
Manager, as well as to construct and prepare the systems. For details, see Q&A1:P66 and
Appendix V: Examples of Basic Policies.

2-4-4. Systems for Participation and Cooperation by Related Divisions and
Persons in Charge
  The internal impropriety countermeasure initiatives addressed in these Guidelines are,
within internal control, particularly concerned with overall internal control pertaining to IT.
However, this does not mean that only information systems divisions with expert IT
knowledge should participate. Internal impropriety countermeasures call for comprehensive
countermeasures that involve multiple divisions – for example, preparation of workplace
environments by the general affairs division, education and preparation of various internal
rules by the personnel division. As such, active participation and cooperation by diverse
divisions and persons in charge are necessary. Moreover, when the scale of these divisions
is large, the responsible managers of the divisions noted below are also required to
participate.




9
   CISO, or Chief Information Security Officer, is appointed by management as the highest person
responsible for information security, and bears responsibility for the overall information security of the
company or organization. This document explains such a role in terms of the CISO.
10
    CPO (Chief Privacy Officer) is a personal information protection manager appointed by management
and bears responsibility and privileges for safe management of personal data in the company or
organization. This document explains such a role in terms of CPO.

                                                     9
             Figure 2: Systems for Internal Impropriety Countermeasures

• CEO: The top manager who bears highest responsibility for decision-making
       concerning internal impropriety countermeasures, in accordance with laws and
       regulations such as the Companies Act, and in accordance with deliberation by
       the Board of Directors.
• Supervising Manager: The manager supervising the systems for internal impropriety
       countermeasures, appointed by the top manager in accordance with laws and
       regulations such as the Companies Act. The Supervising Manager creates,
       manages, and implements specific countermeasures across the organization
       based on the top manager's basic policies, and checks and reviews the status of
       countermeasures.
• Responsible manager of division (for large size division): A person appointed by each
       division as the person responsible for the division. Under the direction of the
       Supervising Manager, responsible managers of divisions implement
       countermeasures in their divisions, and check and review the status of
       countermeasures.




                                         10
3. Definition of Terms, and Related Laws
 The definition of terms used in these Guidelines and an overview of related laws is
described below.


3-1. Terms
(1)     Organization
  A corporation such as a company or a local government, or any other such body.

(2)     Insiders
  Any persons corresponding to officers, employees including contract employees,
temporary workers etc. (hereafter "officers and employees"), or ex-officers or ex-employees
who fulfill either of the following:
    •   Persons having privileges to access the organization's information systems or
        information (e.g., networks, systems, or data), either directly or over a network
    •   Persons engaged in work that may allow physical access (excepting janitorial staff,
        security staff, etc.)

(3)      Internal improprieties
  Internal improprieties include not only illegal activities but also improper activities such as
violations of internal rules concerning information security, which cannot be regarded as
violations of laws. Acts of internal impropriety shall include the theft, removal from premises,
leakage, deletion, sabotage, etc. of important information or information assets (information
systems, etc.). Actions by which insiders retired from organizations leak information that was
gained while working in the organizations shall also be handled as internal improprieties.

(4)     Important information
  Information used by organizations having following features.
  Information against which internal improprieties are conducted may affect business. A
company or organization properly decides whether the information is important or not.
Degree of importance is assigned to the important information based on rating, and its
handling is decided by the categorized importance (See (3) Information rating categories).

(5)     Contracting services
  To make a service contract (quasi-delegation contract, or contract agreement) to entrust a
part of services to contractors. Contract employees and temporary workers defined in
Worker Dispatch Law are not included in this guideline.

(6)   Contractor
  Organizations to which services are entrusted.

(7)      ”advisable”, “preferable”
   Sentences with “must”, “required” indicate countermeasures considered to be necessary.
Countermeasures expressed in “advisable”, “preferable” mean countermeasures desirable
to be strengthening, with exceptions of sentences having “For example” at the beginning, for
which importance is not specified.




                                               11
(8)    Information devices
  Mobile devices with communication functions including PCs, servers, laptop PCs and
smart devices.

3-2. Related Laws

  An overview of laws related to these Guidelines is provided below. In order to
comprehensively consider and take measures with respect to the related laws, etc. listed
here, organizations must conduct said considerations together with persons in charge of the
legal affairs division, as well as the personnel and general affairs divisions.

(1)     Act on the Protection of Personal Information
  This Act stipulates the obligations (safety management mechanisms, obligations to
monitor employees and contractors, etc.) with which businesses that handle personal
information must comply, in order to protect the rights and interests of individuals from the
leakage or improper use of personal information. When a business violates this stipulation
regarding obligations and handles personal information inappropriately, the competent
minister having jurisdiction over the business may take measures including issuing
suggestions and directions to the business. Failure to follow the directions may subject the
business to penalties.

 ■ When important information must be protected as personal information

     When organizations have the objective of protecting managed personal information
   from internal improprieties, they must comply with the rules for obligations
   concerning safety management mechanisms required by the Act on the Protection
   of Personal Information. For details, refer to the Personal Information Protection
   Guidelines for economic and industrial sectors (Article 2 of the Act; Articles 20-22;
   etc.).

 See “Appendix IV: Relationship with Other Guidelines, etc. (3)” for relations with this
Guideline.




                                             12
(2)      Unfair Competition Prevention Act
  The Unfair Competition Prevention Act sets forth rules concerning the protection of trade
secrets. With respect to the improper use or disclosure of trade secrets, it recognizes civil
injunctions and applies criminal penalties in the case of highly illegal infringing conduct.
However, in order to be recognized as a trade secret, information must be managed as
confidential, and must be useful and not publicly known.
  As these Guidelines show methods for handling important information, including trade
secrets, they contain information beneficial for the protection of trade secrets. On the other
hand, not all measures in this Guideline are required for management procedures seeking
protections as trade secrets.

 ■ When important information must be protected as trade secrets

       When aiming at protecting expertise and other trade secrets from internal
      improprieties, refer to information including the "Trade Secret Management
      Guidelines" shown in the website of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.

  See “Appendix IV: Relationship with Other Guidelines, etc. (2)” for relations with this
Guideline.

(3)      Labor Contract Act
  This Act involves cases in which an employee commits internal improprieties such as
leakage of information during the term of employment and, by violating the labor contract, is
subject to dismissal, disciplinary action, claims for damages, etc. However, the efficacy of
dismissal or other specific disciplinary action is to be determined based on the determination
framework under labor laws. Moreover, in the event of damages to the company due to
internal improprieties by an employee, said employee shall be subject to claims for damages
based on default or improper activity under the labor contract.


(4)     Act for Securing the Proper Operation of Worker Dispatching Undertakings and
        Improved Working Conditions for Dispatched Workers
  Although employees bear confidentiality obligations as part of their obligations under labor
contracts, there is no labor contract between dispatched workers and the companies that
temporarily hire them. As the hiring companies cannot directly place confidentiality
obligations upon the dispatched workers, in order to have temporary workers maintain
confidentiality, the companies must take into account the Act for Securing the Proper
Operation of Worker Dispatching Undertakings and Improved Working Conditions for
Dispatched Workers.


(5)       Others
  In addition to the above, legislation concerning improper activity by insiders includes the
Penal Code (e.g., larceny, embezzlement, breach of trust, etc.), the Civil Code (contractual
liability, tort liability, etc.), labor jurisprudence (violation of confidentiality obligations,
non-competition obligations, etc.), and the Whistleblower Protection Act.




                                              13
4. Model Management for preventing Internal Impropriety
  This Section comprehensively presents countermeasures required from the following 10
standpoints in order to implement specific internal impropriety countermeasures within
organizations.

     4-1. Basic Policies
     4-2. Asset Management
     4-3. Physical Management
     4-4. Technological and Operational Management
     4-5. Securing Evidence
     4-6. Human Management
     4-7. Compliance
     4-8. Workplace Environment
     4-9. Follow-up Measures
     4-10. Organizational Management

  Based on these 10 standpoints, 30 countermeasures are presented. However, as these
are shown for hypothetical multiple internal improprieties, enacting all of the countermeasures
may involve more countermeasures than is necessary when only a specific internal impropriety
is targeted.
  Following this, the flow of considerations based on the 30 countermeasure items is
explained. In considering countermeasures, organizations must consider whether risks (i.e.,
impacts on business) can be allowed. As an example, if a given risk is allowed, it may not be
necessary to enact all of the countermeasure items related to that risk. However, taking into
account follow-up legal proceedings after an incident of internal improprieties, it would not
be advisable to allow the risks under "4-2. Asset Management," "4-8. Human Management,"
and "4-7. Compliance." These items are necessary in order to show that fault lies not with
the organization but with the perpetrators of the internal improprieties.

 As shown in Figure 3, the countermeasures for the 30 items are composed of the following
3 points:
    • "Countermeasure principles": Necessary countermeasures are shown in a box.
       These are also check sheet 11 items. Be sure to gain an overview of
       countermeasures.
    • "What risks are there?": Shows the risks when the countermeasures shown in
       "Countermeasure principles" are not taken. Be sure to grasp the necessity of those
       countermeasures.
    • "Countermeasure points": Provides ideas for drafting specific measures against the
       risks.




11
  These Guidelines summarize "countermeasure principles" and present them in Appendix Ⅱ as a check
sheet used for checking the status of internal impropriety countermeasures. The check sheet is also
available on the following website.
URL: http://www.ipa.go.jp/security/fy24/reports/insider/

                                                14
                     Figure 3 Structural overview of countermeasures

  Per the following, consider specific countermeasures while reading the text from
"Countermeasure principles" to "Countermeasure points." As some items may involve
multiple parties (or divisions) concerned, these parties must participate. For the parties (or
divisions) concerned for each item, see "Appendix II: Internal Impropriety Check Sheet".

  (1) Read "Countermeasure principles" to gain an overview of countermeasures.
  (2) Read "What risks are there?" to understand the risks when the countermeasures
       shown in "Countermeasure principles" are not taken. Consider the effects on
       business when the information security incidents occur. If the effects on business are
       negligible and risks are judged as allowable, it may not be necessary to conduct
       countermeasures.
  (3) Read "Countermeasure points," and, taking costs, resources, etc. into account, draft
       specific implementation measures based on the effects on business of (2). "Appendix
       III: Q&A" and "Appendix IV: Relationship with Other Guidelines, etc." are attached as
       a supplement. Draft specific implementation measures with reference to these
       Appendices.

  It is advisable to periodically review the specific implementation measures drafted in (3),
as the allowable risks in (2) may change along with societal background and scale of the
company. Moreover, as these Guidelines are expected to undergo revision in step with
developments in the social background and in IT, it would be effective to time the above
reviews to revisions to these Guidelines.




                                             15
4-1. Basic Policies (Responsibilities of the Top Manager and Governance)

  In preventing internal improprieties in the organization, the involvement of the top manager
in promoting effective countermeasures throughout the organization is of extreme
importance. Formulation of basic policies and construction of systematic management
systems through the leadership of the top manager are also necessary. The top manager
must view internal impropriety countermeasures as a management issue. In that event, it is
important to undertake considerations as a component of risk management, from the
standpoint of the confidentiality 12, integrity13, and availability 14 of information assets.
  With the top manager taking the lead, it is possible to thoroughly promote awareness of
and initiatives toward internal impropriety countermeasures within the organization, by
constructing and operating systems and mechanisms for internal impropriety
countermeasures. In the end, an organization doing so will be able to strengthen protection
of personal information and internal control, as well as respond to legal requests toward the
company.




12
    I.e., enabling the use of information only by persons approved to access the information (e.g., not
leaking information).
13
    I.e., ensuring that information and information processing methods are accurate, and that no changes
are made by persons without privileges (e.g., ensuring that information is not falsified).
14
    I.e., enabling access to information and information systems whenever necessary, for users authorized
to access the information (e.g., ensuring that system failure does not occur, making information and
information systems unusable).

                                                   16
(1)     Clarification of the Responsibilities of the Top Manager

 1. Top managers are responsible for developing internal impropriety countermeasures,
 and must formulate “basic policies” to show fundamental directions within and outside
 the organization, and must disseminate the policies to the officers and employees.

 2. Top managers must make decisions and provide instructions for securing resources
 necessary to implement countermeasures based on “basic policies”.


■ What risks are there?

  Top managers must have strong sense of responsibility to conduct internal improprieties
countermeasures, and according to their management strategies or policies, understand
impact on their organizations caused by the improprieties; otherwise, organizations’ “basic
policies” for the improprieties will be hard to be built.
  Also, top managers must take leaderships to develop "basic policies", or else management
responsibilities inside and outside the companies will be unclear, resulting in difficulties in
building effective management structures. "Basic policies" must be developed to
communicate top manager’s decisions to prevent internal improprieties. Otherwise, their
intentions will not be conveyed to the officers and employees; consequently, taking specific
measures or educating officers and employees about countermeasures for internal
improprieties will be difficult.
  If the top managers don’t make decisions to provide instructions for securing resources
necessary to conduct countermeasures based on “basic policies”, this will also result in
difficulties in developing effective management structures.

■ Countermeasure points

  Considering management strategy or policies, the top manager must understand negative
impact on the organizational operation caused by internal improprieties, and must formulate
the basic policies that form the general framework for internal impropriety countermeasures
to set the direction for internal impropriety countermeasures 15 . To make the
countermeasures more effective, the top manager makes decisions and provide instructions
necessary for securing resources, and periodically reviews basic policies and organizational
resource allocation while monitoring 16 and evaluating the implementation status of
countermeasures.
  For these, the top manager him/herself understands the below countermeasures to take
internal responsibility and external accountability.
    1. According to management strategy or policy, the top manager understands impact
         on the organizational operation caused by internal improprieties 17.
    2. With reference to these Guidelines, the top manager formulates basic
         policies*Q&A1:P66
    3. The top manger makes decisions necessary for securing human resources and
         budget to conduct planned “basic policies”, and provide instructions.

15
   Corporate groups consisting of several companies such as holding companies usually have close
operational relationship involving important information. These groups must plan internal improprieties
countermeasures through the groups consensus based on their corporate governance design. In this case,
cooperation and responsibility structures between group companies must be documented and clarified.
16
   Continuously assessing situations through periodic reporting
17
   As utilizing information has become increasingly important for various aspects of organizational
operation, organizations must study effects caused by internal improprieties considering possible
suspension of operational activities or downfall of social trust.

                                                  17
4.   The top manager checks internal impropriety countermeasures for the formulated
     basic policies, and disseminates the countermeasures to officers and employees
     through education, etc.
5.   Based on the results of monitoring and evaluation, the top manager periodically
     reviews the basic policies and organizational resource allocation.
6.   The top manager discriminates between important information and other
     information.*Q&A2:P67 Furthermore, it is advisable for the top manager to divide
     important information into several categories, taking into account their degree of
     importance to the business.*Q&A3:P67
7.   The top manager regularly reviews the division and categorization of important
     information, as these may change along with societal background, changes in the
     business, etc.




                                         18
(2)     Appointment of the Supervising Manager and Construction of Cross-Organization
        Systems

 1. The top manager appoints the Supervising Manager and approves management
 systems and implementation measures, showing the organization as a whole that these
 are top manager-led initiatives.

 2. Following the basic principles, the Supervising Manager must construct
 cross-organizational management systems. Moreover, the Supervising Manager must
 formulate implementation measures.

  However, if the organization is one in which the top manager has a view of the entire
 organization and implements internal impropriety countermeasures on his or her own, it
 may not be necessary to construct management systems.


■ What risks are there?

  If the top manager does not appoint a Supervising Manager or give approval to the
countermeasures to be implemented, it will be difficult to allocate the necessary budget and
personnel, which in turn makes the construction of effective management systems difficult.
  As the important information targeted by internal improprieties exists in diverse divisions in
the organization, if cross-organizational management systems are not constructed, the
organization may be unable to enact effective and efficient countermeasures or information
management, or to establish them thoroughly. That latter failure heightens the risk of internal
improprieties occurring.

■ Countermeasure points

  The top manager takes the lead in constructing and operating systems for establishing
internal impropriety countermeasures in the organization. Specifically, the organization is to
establish and operate the following countermeasures.
    1. A person with understanding of information security and management*Q&A1:P66 is to
        be appointed as Supervising Manager in order to achieve efficient and effective
        internal impropriety countermeasures that take the business into account.
    2. The Supervising Manager reifies and documents cross-organizational management
        systems and the roles of the related divisions and thoroughly establishes those roles.
        Responsible divisions, taking the lead with the Supervising Manager, construct
        organization-wide implementation measures and implementation systems for internal
        impropriety countermeasures. (e.g. Depending on business size and other aspects,
        setting up special divisions or committees related to handling of important
        information*Q&A4:P67.) See Figure 4 for an overview of the important information and
        roles for the hypothetical related organizations.
    3. In constructing cross-organizational management systems, the Supervising
        Manager appoints responsible managers or persons in charge for each division, who
        then serve as management and operational staff.
    4. To build systems to fully implement internal improprieties countermeasures in the
        organization, the supervising manager clearly specifies abilities needed for division
        managers and persons in charge. If their abilities are found insufficient,
        organizations take actions to improve the abilities, or consider introducing specialists
        from outside the organization. The supervising manager supports managers and
        persons in charge so that they can achieve necessary knowledge and know-how
        according to their roles.


                                              19
     5.   When developing management systems for prevention of internal improprieties and
          other systems involving privacy protection, compliance control and risk management
          in the organization, the top manager takes lead to define each role and cooperation
          systems within the organization.
     6.   Partnership structures must be developed with contractors included if necessary,
          when the contractors involve operations related to handling of important information
          (See (16) Confirmations of Contractors Services (including when using services
          provided by third parties).Generally, as for outsourcing services involving handling of
          important information, it may increase business efficiency by entrusting services to
          specialist groups while it may increase risks for implementing internal improprieties
          countermeasures 18. Hence, operations involving handling of information must be
          addressed weighing efficiencies and risks: Think which is appropriate, handling the
          tasks within the organization or outsourcing them.




Figure 4 Overview of important information and roles for hypothetical related organizations




18
   Examples for increasing risks include being an indirect supervisor when implementing internal
improprieties countermeasures, and basic policy differences in own organization and contractors.

                                                   20
4-2. Asset Management (Designation as Confidential, Designation of Access
Privileges, Access Administration, etc.)

 See Figure 5 for an overview of the flow for information asset listing or other handling and
considerations.




Figure 5 Flow diagram for information (important information) handling and considerations




                                             21
4-2-1. Designation as Confidential
(3)    Information rating categories

   Organizations or the division in charge must assess important information, assign it
 rating categories according to degree of importance, and based on those categories,
 set the scope (e.g., position, job category, etc.) of insiders able to handle the
 information.

■ What risks are there?

  If important information such as customer lists or technical knowledge is not separated
from other information, officers and employees will not know which information is important
information that must be protected, and may leak information without knowing that it is
important. Moreover, if important information is not assigned rating categories and managed
appropriately according to category, countermeasures may prove insufficient or too costly.
  Organizations or the division in charge that do not perform this management may be
unable to pursue the liability of employees committing improprieties. Moreover, doubt may
be cast onto the management responsibility of the company or organization.

■ Countermeasure points

 Organizations or the division in charge must establish the following in order to assess and
appropriately manage important information.
  1. Organizations or the division in charge are to establish handling for important
       information. When three or more degrees of importance have been assigned in the
       rating categorization, organizations or the division in charge are to establish
       handling for each degree of importance. Organizations or the division in charge are
       to periodically review the handling established for important information.
  2. Organizations or the division in charge are to establish administrators for important
       information. As an example, organizations can set responsible manager of divisions,
       or persons in charge selected from responsible managers of divisions, as
       administrators. Large organizations are to establish an administrator for each
       division.




                                            22
(4)        The application and labeling of rating categories

      1. In order to restrict the scope of handling important information, creators of
      important information must select one of the ratings categories established in (3), and
      must have the selection confirmed by the administrator for important information.

      2. Furthermore, some sort of indicator, such as a confidentiality mark, must be set on
      digital documents or digital data containing important information, to let insiders
      identify important information.

■ What risks are there?

  If organizations do not set ranking categories for important information, the scope of
handling for the information will not be set, and even officers and employees having no need
to handle such information will have access to it, and the possibility of leakage will increase
as the important information becomes known to more officers and employees. As the
number of officers and employees knowing of the important information increases, the
environment for detecting internal improprieties will worsen, the likelihood of occurrence will
grow, and the perpetrators of internal improprieties will become difficult to identify after
occurrence.
   If organizations do not set an administrator for important information (e.g., the responsible
manager of the division, etc.), appropriate management of important information will not be
thoroughly established, and important information may leak due to information assets in PCs,
etc. being lost or taken from the premises without authorization.
   Moreover, if labels are not shown 19 based on degree of importance, officers and
employees may take information from the premises or leak it without knowing it is important
information.

■ Countermeasure points

 Organizations are to restrict the scope of handling important information, and are to set
and operate the items below to make handling of the important information understood.
  1. The scope of handling of important information is to be restricted to officers and
       employees with work-related need. In order to reduce the danger of improper use of
       important information, organizations are to set the scope of handling based on
       position, duties, role, scope of responsibility, form of employment, and so on.
  2. Creators of important information must select one of the ratings categories
       established in (3), and must have the selection confirmed by the administrator for
       important information. In the same way, important information already created and
       stored must be assigned ranking categories.
  3. A confidentiality mark (such as graphic data or a stamp, or a watermark with text,
       indicating confidentiality) making rating categories known to officers and employees
       must be attached to digital documents containing important information. For digital
       documents containing important information, along with the above confidentiality
       mark, it is advisable to designate and display a period of validity for the important
       information. The period of validity is to be reviewed periodically. When the period of
       validity has expired, the information is to be subjected to the established handling
       such as disposal.
  4. When deleting important information from the storage media of their PCs or other
       information devices, officers and employees must select an erasing method based
       on the degree of importance of that information and then perform deletion 20.


19
     Some tools allow such specification through file properties.

                                                      23
4-2-2. Designation of access rights
(5)        User access management in information systems

      1. To enable access to important information by only those users specified by the
      scope of handling (e.g., position, job category, etc.) set in (4), information systems
      division must operate information systems with procedures established for
      registration, change, deletion, and other settings concerning user IDs and access
      rights.

      2. User IDs and access rights that have become unnecessary due to transfer or
      retirement must be deleted promptly21.

■ What risks are there?

   If information systems division do not set user IDs and access rights appropriately in
information systems, officers and employees not intended to have access rights to important
information may be granted access, and important information may be used improperly.
Conversely, officers and employees needing to access important information to perform
their work may not be granted access.
   If information systems division do not delete user IDs that have become unnecessary due
to transfer or retirement, these may be improperly used by current- and ex- officers and
employees to access important information.
  Information systems division that does not perform this management may be unable to
pursue the liability of current- and ex- officers and employees committing improprieties.
Moreover, doubt may be cast onto the management responsibility of the company or
organization.
■ Countermeasure points

 Information systems division is to take the countermeasures below in order to correctly set
user IDs and access rights in information systems.
   1. Information systems division is to establish and operate procedures such as
       approval procedures for the registration, change, and deletion of user IDs and
       access rights, and notification of completion of settings.
   2. Information systems division is to set access rights to important information for user
       IDs in information systems, based on the scope of handling established in (4). If
       access rights based on the scope of handling established in (4) are not set, this is to
       be remedied by review of (4) or functional changes to the information system.
   3. Number of users to whom access rights for important information should be
       authorized to be minimal. Privileges to be authorized to users having access rights
       also to be minimal, with restricted period, depending on necessity. Measures in the
       agreement specified in (16) are needed especially when authorizing privileges to
       contract workers22.




20
   When officers and employees are away from work involving extremely important information, the
information should be completely deleted from the storage media of their PCs or other information devices.
Complete deletion covers levels from OS-level formatting to random data overwriting.
21
     In cases such as access records are deleted upon deletion of user IDs, it is necessary to lock user IDs
to disable access and save access logs.
22
    For example, when systems are changed due to contract workers resignation or relocation, these
    changes must be reported to contracting organizations to prevent account removal failures.

                                                    24
     4.   Operation to be in conjunction with personnel procedures, etc. concerning personnel
          relocation, in order to prevent oversights in procedures for registration, change, and
          deletion of user IDs and access rights 23.
     5.   Information systems division is to periodically review requirements for access rights,
          to confirm that user IDs and access rights are being granted appropriately. As an
          example, it is advisable to perform reviews, etc. at the same time as personnel
          relocations. Especially when specific users hold too many access rights, confirm the
          appropriateness and remove unnecessary access rights.
     6.   For information systems storing important information, it is advisable to control the
          systems based on time, traffic and other access conditions. For example, time
          based control enables organizations to restrict accesses to important information
          during the night, while traffic based control enables to alert supervisors when
          important information is downloaded in bulk 24.




23
     Access control systems corresponding to “Roll-based access control ” assigning access rights to jobs
(rolls) rather than individuals can be implemented.
24
   When monitoring through notifications, it is necessary to check the contents of notification and act
appropriately. Reference values must be kept secret from officers and employees so that the
                                      25
countermeasures are not bypassed. When only one person in the organization is in charge of the system
administrator, the organization (or the division in charge) cannot avoid such risks through privilege
distribution. In such a case, the organization can mitigate those risks by having personnel other than the
system administrator check the history of information system management operations.

                                                   25
(6)       Rights management for system administrators

       When there are multiple system administrators, organizations or the division in
      charge must assign an appropriate scope of rights for each system administrator ID,
      and must enable system administrators to monitor each other.

■ What risks are there?

  If organizations do not assign an appropriate scope of rights for each system administrator
ID, improper registration or deletion of user IDs can occur, and business may be obstructed
by improper deletion or improper use of important information caused by improper
registration. Furthermore, when the assignment of scope of rights is not appropriate, as
when rights are overly concentrated in a single administrator, there may be obstructions to
business continuity, such as destruction of information systems or deletion of important
information 25.

■ Countermeasure points

  To prevent internal improprieties by system administrators, organizations or the division in
charge are to assign an appropriate scope of rights for each system administrator ID, and
are to confirm that these are operated properly, as follows.
   1. When determining system administrators, organizations or the division in charge are
        to appoint persons with appropriateness to the position, including high
        consciousness of rules. It is advisable that multiple administrators be appointed,
        enabling mutual monitoring.26
   2. Rights should be distributed so as to not be concentrated in a single system
        administrator.
   3. In order to enable mutual monitoring by system administrators, organizations or the
        division in charge are to create and keep task reports recording the content and time
        of tasks. Moreover, it is advisable that the content of task reports be confirmed by
        other system administrators.
   4. System administrators do not use their special privileges when performing
        operations requiring no such privileges.




25
   When only one person in the organization is in charge of the system administrator, the organization (or
the division in charge) cannot avoid such risks through privilege distribution. In such a case, the
organization can mitigate those risks by having personnel other than the system administrator check the
history of information system management operations.
26
   When multiple system administrators are put in place, not only can persons performing the work of
information system configuration check the content of their work, but other system administrators can check
whether the configuration work is implemented properly, allowing administrators to monitor each other.
Work other than monitoring involving the presence of several persons can also be considered. Such work
may use distribution and division of keys, etc.

                                                    26
(7)        Identification and authentication of users in information systems

        To identify users (insiders using information systems) and system administrators
      (insiders managing information systems) of information systems, organizations must
      perform authentication using individual passwords, IC cards, etc. for individual users
      and system administrators, without using shared IDs, shared passwords, shared IC
      cards, etc.

■ What risks are there?

  When organizations use shared IDs, passwords, IC cards, etc. in information systems, in
the event of internal improprieties the organizations become unable to identify which users
accessed important information, making identification of the perpetrators of internal
improprieties difficult. Moreover, when the identification of perpetrators of internal
improprieties is difficult, an environment is created in which it is psychologically easy to take
important information from the premises.
  Organizations that do not perform this management may be unable to pursue the liability
of the perpetrators of internal improprieties. Moreover, doubt may be cast onto the
management responsibility of the company or organization.

■ Countermeasure points

 In order to appropriately perform identification and authentication of users in information
systems, organizations must prepare and operate rules for managing user IDs and system
administrator IDs, as follows.
   1. To identify users and system administrators, organizations are to assign a user ID or
       system administrator ID to each user or system administrator. In addition, user IDs
       and system administrator IDs are to be authenticated using passwords, etc.
   2. In order to prevent improper use of a user's user ID by another user, organizations
       should establish administrative items*Q&A4:P67 concerning passwords and should
       have users follow these. Examples include not setting simple text strings as
       passwords, and periodically changing passwords.
   3. Organizations are to prohibit the lending of IDs, passwords, IC cards, etc. to other
       users.




                                                27
4-3. Physical Management
(8)       Physical protection and entry/exit management

       Organizations must establish boundaries that physically protect locations where
      important information is stored, handled, etc. from entry other than by authorized
      persons, by protecting important information and information systems with walls and
      entry/exit management measures.

■ What risks are there?

  When unauthorized persons have physical access to equipment storing important
information, or to PCs or other information devices that handle important information, those
information devices may be destroyed and obstacles to work created, or the devices may be
stolen and information leaked. Alternately, leakage or deletion of important information may
occur through manipulation of these information devices.
  Particularly, storage devices and media for important information are required to be
protected in server rooms, etc. where strict entering and exiting management is enforced,
for once they are destroyed, operations may not be able to continue.

■ Countermeasure points

   As an example, organizations must clarify areas for storage or handling of important
information per Figure 6, and must physically protect these to restrict the insiders, or the
delivery persons and other outsiders, who are able to enter these areas.
    1. Organizations are to establish physical areas calling for strengthened security, and
        are to prepare security rules that should be followed*Q&A5:P67 in accordance with the
        importance of the information assets managed in each area. For example, IC card or
        biometric authentication is to be performed upon entry into the server room.
    2. Organizations are to determine the areas which can be entered and exited by
        insiders (i.e., officers and employees) and outsiders (e.g., delivery persons) and are
        to manage their entry/exit, so as to prevent important information from being
        improperly taken from their premises. As an example, organizations may restrict
        entry/exit to the shipping entrance for delivery personnel, the reception room for
        clients, and the entranceway and work floors for officers and employees. Access to
        server rooms are to be restricted to system administrators and other qualified
        personnel, and to require prior permission from the administrative staff (including the
        responsible manager).
    3. In entry/exit management, it is necessary that organizations create records of entry
        and exit in order to prevent internal improprieties and to track perpetrators after
        occurrences. Moreover, taking "records to identify individuals" (such as facial
        photographs) of those entering or leaving the room is highly effective in deterring
        internal improprieties. In this case, the "records of entry and exit" and "records to
        identify individuals" are to be audited regularly or at random.
    4. For physical areas allowing access to important information, organizations must also
        take into account unauthorized entry during unmanned hours. As an example, it is
        advisable to install automatic security systems and surveillance cameras. It is also
        advisable that records of security system operators performing the unlocking of
        buildings (time of initial entry) and locking (time of final exit) include "records to
        identify individuals" such as their facial photographs.
    5. Organizations must also consider preparing environments for disconnecting
        equipment containing important information from networks as required.



                                              28
Figure 6 Example of areas to be physically protected




                        29
(9)        Asset management and physical protection of information devices and storage
           media

      1. Organizations or the division in charge must manage and protect PCs, other
      information devices, and portable external storage media 27 to prevent theft, improper
      removal from the premises, etc.

      2. In addition, when disposing of unneeded information devices or storage media,
      organizations or the division in charge must confirm that important information has
      been completely deleted.

■ What risks are there?

  When organizations or the division in charge do not manage information devices and
storage media, an environment is created that facilitates theft or improper removal of
items from the premises, and theft or improper removal may go unnoticed. Moreover, if
organizations or the division in charge do not physically protect information devices, they
might be stolen and important information leaked.
  In addition, if devices or storage media on which important information is stored or has
not been completely deleted are disposed of, this important information may be leaked.

■ Countermeasure points

 Organizations or the division in charge must stipulate measures required for information
devices and storage media that handle important information that should be protected, and
manage and protect information devices and storage media in the way that they are
protected from theft, improper removal from the premises, or careless disposal.
   1. In order to facilitate the detection of the loss or improper removal of information
        devices organizations or the division in charge are to manage the installation
        locations and users of the devices via ledgers, etc., and are to periodically conduct
        inventory (i.e., checking of assets).
   2. It is advisable that information devices be affixed to desks, etc. using security cables,
        etc. to prevent theft or improper removal from the premises. Moreover, mobile
        devices (laptop PCs, smart devices, etc.) and portable storage media (USB storage,
        etc.) are to be stored locked in shelves, desks, etc.
   3. Information devices such as important information storage servers and access
        management servers are to be installed in a place such as a server room with strict
        entry/exit management, to prevent physical access by persons other than
        administrators.
   4. When disposing of information devices and storage media, organizations or the
        division in charge are to completely delete important information from HDDs, USB
        storage, and other storage media so that restoration is not possible. Moreover, it is
        advisable that CD-Rs, DVD-Rs, HDDs, and other storage media are required to be
        physically destroyed using a crusher 28, etc.




27
     USB storage, portable HDD, etc.
28
     Crushers are equipped in devices such as shredders.

                                                   30
(10)     Management of portable information devices and storage media

      When mobile devices (laptop PCs, smart devices, etc.) and portable storage media
     (USB storage, CD-Rs, etc.) are taken from a physically protected location per (8),
     organizations or the division in charge must manage the approval and recording of
     the removal 29.

■ What risks are there?

  If organizations or the division in charge do not have approval system in place for the
removal of mobile devices and storage media from the premises, important information may
be taken without authorization and may be leaked. Moreover, if organizations or the division
in charge do not keep records of removal from the premises, investigation of any internal
improprieties may be difficult.
■ Countermeasure points

 In the management of removal of mobile devices and storage media from the premises,
organizations or the division in charge must establish and operate the following items.
   1. When removing mobile devices and storage media from the premises, the approval
       of division managers, etc. must be obtained.
   2. When removing mobile devices and storage media from the premises, the
       information assets taken, the date and the person in charge, etc. must be recorded
       and managed.




29
  See (14) regarding the protection of important information stored in portable information devices and
USB storage in the case those devices and storage are taken from a physically protected location per (8).

                                                   31
(11)    Restrictions on bringing in and using personal information devices and storage
        media for work

  Information systems division must properly restrict employees' bringing in and using
 personal mobile devices (laptop PCs, smart devices, etc.) and portable storage media
 (USB storage, etc.).

■ What risks are there?

  When personal information devices and storage media are used for work, management of
these by the organization becomes difficult. Information belonging to individuals and
information belonging to organizations become handled together, increasing the risk of
important information being leaked due to virus infection, erroneous operations, etc.
Moreover, investigation of any internal improprieties may be difficult if owners of personal
information devices and storage media do not comply with investigations of the personal
items.
  When personal information devices and storage media are brought into work floors or
other areas that handle important information, important information may be stored on the
personal information devices or storage media and taken from the premises. Moreover, in
the case of information devices with cameras, important information may be photographed
and taken from the premises. Information devices with communication functions may
transmit important information to outside.

■ Countermeasure points

  When restricting bringing in and using personal information devices and storage media for
work, information systems division must take into account the degree of importance of
important information and the installation location, etc. of information systems. Specifically,
information systems division is to establish and operate the following.
    1. Information systems division is to consider whether to allow the use of personal
        information devices and storage media for work.
    2. Information systems division allowing this develops rules including the scope of work
        for which usage is allowed, as well as compliance items. If the scope of work for
        which usage is allowed is broad, information systems division should note that the
        important information handled will increase and management will become difficult.
        Moreover, it is advisable for information systems division to gain written consent on
        compliance items regarding use for work.
    3. If personally owned information devices are required to access an organization's
        networks, only the devices with security measures specified in (12) should be
        allowed. In this case, it is preferable that the access be restricted only to authorized
        work systems and work services.
    4. When information with a high degree of importance is handled on personal
        information devices, it is advisable that software, etc. allowing management of the
        important information on the personal information devices be installed as required,
        allowing organizations to manage the important information.
    5. Personally owned laptop PCs, tablets, smart devices and other portable information
        devices must be strictly restricted to be brought or used in server rooms with servers
       storing important information and/or managing user access, and in other
        workspaces handling important information depending on the importance of the
       important information.
    6. In areas where bringing in information devices is prohibited, it is advisable to provide
       warnings of this via posters, etc.


                                              32
     7.   Information systems division is to restrict employees' bringing in personally-owned
          USB storage and other portable storage media. Only portable storage media
          provided by the company is to be used.
     8.   It is preferable to implement software30 that restrict use of mobile devices including
          smart devices and other external recording media such as portable USB storages to
          address information leakage through personally owned information devices or
          recording media.




30
  Examples of hardware protection measures include uses of terminals without USB slots or with disabled
USB slots.

                                                  33
4-4. Technological and Operational Management
(12)   Safety management for network usage

    To prevent the leakage of important information from users' PCs and other
  information devices in the use of organizations' networks, organizations must prepare
  safe network environments by restricting the use of file sharing software, social
  network services (SNS), external online storage, etc.

■ What risks are there?

   If file-sharing software is installed on information devices, important information on the
devices may be unintentionally leaked to the outside. Executing external files obtained by
file sharing software may result in malware infection and even spread infection to other
information devices in the organization.
   Moreover, if organizations allow the use of SNS, the use of external online storage, and
posting to message boards, important information may be uploaded or posted and thereby
leaked.

■ Countermeasure points

 To prevent external leakage of important information from organizations' networks,
organizations must take measures concerning information devices.
   1. Organizations must not allow the installation and use of software not authorized by
       the organization (e.g., file sharing software) on the PCs and other information
       devices of officers and employees. Organizations are to decide what software is
       allowed. In the case of requests by users for certain software, organizations must
       decide whether to allow its use.
   2. With regard to Web access, it is advisable to install contents filter, and to restrict
       access to SNS, upload services, message boards, etc.
   3. With regard to e-mail, it is advisable to confirm that e-mail software is not configured
       to forward business e-mails to personal e-mail addresses. Moreover, to prevent
       mistaken e-mail transmissions which could lead to the leakage of information, it is
       advisable to install mechanisms that recheck sent outbound e-mails and/or require
       supervisors approvals, and a mail system that does not allow the transmission of
       unencrypted attachments.
   4. To protect PCs and other information devices, organizations are to implement
       general security measures such as installing antivirus software and applying security
       patches.




                                             34
(13)      Transfer and Protection of Important Information

     1. The transfer of important information to contractors or other parties concerned
     must be appropriately managed at all steps from transfer to disposal.

     2. Considering the possibility of mistaken transfer of important information to persons
     other than intended parties during the transfer of important information via
     transmission over the Internet or via storage media, the important information must
     be protected using encryption or other means.

■ What risks are there?

  In the transfer of important information by e-mail, storage media, etc., if important
information is not prevented from being taken from the premises other than when
necessary, insiders may improperly take the important information. Moreover, if the
transferred important information is not protected, important information may be leaked
due to mistaken transmission of e-mail or due to theft or loss of storage media.
■ Countermeasure points

 Steps are to be managed as follows, from the transfer of important information to parties
concerned, to the disposal of the important information by said parties.
   1. With regard to the transfer of important information, organizations are to establish
       internal procedures*Q&A6:P68 and approval measures matched to the degree of
       importance, and are to make contractors and other parties concerned comply with
       these.
   2. Organizations are to record activities related to transfers of important information to
       parties concerned.
   3. Organizations encrypt information related to transfers of important information to
       relevant parties through the Internet or hand delivery of storage media.
   4. When important information has been disclosed to parties concerned, organizations
       are to obtain from the parties records concerning the disposal or deletion of the
       important information.
   5. Organizations must have subcontractors as well as contractors comply with the
       above arrangements 31.




31
   With regard to the oversight of entrusted parties, Article 22 of the Act on the Protection of Personal
Information stipulates, "When entrusting the handling of personal data in part or in entirety to another party,
a business operator handling personal information must perform necessary and appropriate oversight of the
entrusted parties, to ensure the safe management of the personal data for which handling was entrusted.".

                                                      35
(14)      Protection of Information Devices and Storage Media taken from the Premises

      When mobile devices (laptop PCs, smartphones, etc.) and portable storage media
     (USB storage, CD-Rs, etc.) that store important information are taken from a
     physically protected location per (8), the important information must be appropriately
     protected through technological measures.

■ What risks are there?

 When information devices or storage media storing important information is taken from the
premises without the implementation of technological measures such as encryption or
password locking, the important information may be leaked in the event of theft or loss.

■ Countermeasure points

  When mobile devices (laptop PCs, smartphones, etc.) and portable storage media (USB
storage, etc.) that store important information are taken from an organization's premises, the
organization must take appropriate measures.
   1. When information devices are used, organizations are to configure them to perform
       authentication via user ID, password, etc. Moreover, it is advisable to set BIOS
       passwords, HDD passwords, etc. for laptop PCs.32 It is also advisable to install
       encryption software for protecting important information.
   2. It is advisable to use tools or services allowing remote deletion of information on
       information devices in the event of loss of information devices storing important
       information. It is also advisable to use tools that delete important information when
       password lock authorization fails a set number of times.




32
   When devices (e.g. smartphones, tablet PCs, etc.) other than the organization's standardized devices
are among the information devices being able to access important information, organizations must
implement the same level of security measures on those devices as those for the organization's
standardized devices .

                                                   36
(15)      Protection of Important Information in Work Outside of the Organization

       When performing work using important information outside of physically protection
     locations per (8), organizations must appropriately protect the important information,
     taking the surrounding environment, network environment, etc. into account.

■ What risks are there?

  When work is done in a public place, important information may be leaked if viewed by
surrounding persons. Moreover, if the organization's network is accessed via a public wired
or wireless LAN and the communication is not protected, eavesdropping of the important
information on the network may occur and the important information may be leaked. When
working at home, important information must be restricted to be accessed and/or stored in
PCs depending on the confidentiality of the important information. Otherwise important
information may be stored in personally owned PCs which are not under control of
organizations, or may be accessed by people other than the worker him/herself (e.g. family
members and/or visitors) and that increases the risk of important information leakage.

■ Countermeasure points

 In work involving important information outside of the organization, screens must be
appropriately protected from unwanted viewing in the usage environment, and connections
must be limited to approved network environments.
   1. Care is to be taken against unwanted viewing of screens on trains, in cafes, etc.
       Moreover, it is advisable to protect screens from unwanted viewing by using privacy
       protection film, etc.
   2. Organizations are to determine whether to allow connection to hotel wired or wireless
       LANs, public wireless LANs, and other networks shared by unknown users 33.
   3. When accessing the organization's networks from an approved network environment,
       important information must be encrypted and communication must be encrypted
       using a VPN 34, etc.
   4. It is advisable to store as little data as possible in PCs when connecting
       organization’s networks from outside 35 . When allowing access to important
       information in the organization, precisely allocate access rights to prevent access to
       unnecessary information.




33
    It is advisable to implement user authentications using IDs and passwords, multiple authentications
including terminal authorization using physical address, and access prohibition from outside the
organization according to the confidentiality of important information. It is also preferable that the usages
within the organization be similarly restricted.
34
    Depending on the confidentiality of important information and external parties involved, it is advisable to
encrypt data and communication even within the organization.
35
    This includes desktop virtualization. Once desktops are virtualized, users can connect the organization’s
networks from outside to read and edit organization’s data without storing them on local computers (or
clients) so that the information is not to be left on PCs.

                                                      37
(16)     Confirmations of Contractors Services (Including when using services provided
         by third parties)

      Depending on services to be entrusted and importance of the important information,
     organizations and contractors must confirm and agree on security measures before
     contracting; afterwards, the organizations must regularly and irregularly check
     whether the contractors implement information security measures according to the
     contracts.

■ What risks are there?

  If contracts are made without confirming needed security measures based on the services
to be entrusted and importance of the important information, the important information could
be leaked out due to the contractors’ insufficient security measures. Also, depending on the
contents of agreements, damages caused by important information leakage may not be
compensated.
  Information leakage caused by the contractors’ insufficient security measures may not be
prevented if organizations do not make sure that contractors are implementing security
measures according to the contracts. Also investigations on internal improprieties could be
difficult if the agreement does not state that the contractors must provide logs.
  When using services provided by third parties (including cloud computing), if organizations
do not determine which information may be handled via services provided by third parties
and which may not, they may entrust sensitive, business-related information to the third
parties, and should the leakage of such information occur, they may not be able to continue
their operations.
  If contractors involve operations related to handling of important information, the
contractors must be incorporated in partnership structures when appropriate, depending on
the importance of important information. When considering outsourcings, organizations
must weigh efficiency advantages and increasing risks of internal improprieties.

■ Countermeasure points

  When entrusting services to contractors, organizations confirm in advance any matters
necessary for the safe management of important information, and incorporate these into
agreements. During the contract periods, organizations must check regularly and irregularly
whether the security measures are implemented according to contracts 36 . Specifically,
organizations must confirm the contents of services from the following standpoints
(depending on the importance of the important information), and make sure the contents of
the security measures.
   1. Before entrusting services, organizations must make sure the required security
       measures for handling of important information to be correctly implemented. For this
       it is advisable that according to the services to be entrusted, organizations check the
       contractors’ service systems and business scales, availabilities of audits for provided
       services, and conduct on-the-spot inspections if necessary so that the supervising
       managers or division managers can appropriately evaluate the findings.
   2. Organizations regularly and irregularly inspect whether contractors security
       measures are sufficient for safe management. It is preferable that supervising
       managers or division managers properly conduct results evaluation including
       possible contract revision.


36
  Case Studies for Appropriate Protection of Personal Information, reported by The Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry (March 2010) could be a useful reference for supervising contractors.

                                                 38
3.   When contractors subcontract services, it is advisable that contractors in advance
     require subcontractors to provide information of service contents and rules for
     handling of important information, or obtain approvals for them. During the contract
     periods, contractors, or if necessary organizations themselves conduct inspections
     or audits regularly and irregularly*Q&A9:P69 .
4.   It is preferable to make sure beforehand that subcontractors provide logs in cases
     when internal improprieties are suspected, and it must be clearly stated in the
     agreements between contractors and subcontractors.
5.   When using services provided by third parties (including cloud computing),
     organizations decide if the third parties can handle the important information in the
     entrusted services. Organizations also make sure if the service levels and
     management requirements are appropriate for business continuity.
6.   During contract periods, organizations may consider changing contractors or even
     terminating contracts if contractors or third parties who provide services are found
     failing in conducting appropriate internal improprieties countermeasures according
     to the organizations’ basic policies.




                                          39
4-5. Securing Evidence
                                                           37
(17)      Recording and Storage of Logs and Trails              in Information Systems

       From the standpoints of early discovery of internal improprieties (27) and the scope
     of the effects of follow-up measures, it is advisable to record and store logs and trails
     including the history of access to important information and users' operation history,
     and then securely preserve them.

■ What risks are there?

  If logs and trails are not recorded and checked periodically, the actions in logs and trails
that are signs of improper activity may not be uncovered, meaning that detection may be
delayed and damage may be major when detected.
  Moreover, if information systems division does not preserve logs and trails, then in
follow-up measures (27) after incidents of internal improprieties, they will have difficulty
identifying the causes of internal improprieties or investigating the trail of the perpetrators of
the internal improprieties or the scope of effects. Also they may not be accepted as the
grounds for punishment stated in (22) or evidences necessary for possible contract disputes
or lawsuits.

■ Countermeasure points

  From the standpoints of early detection of internal improprieties and follow-up measures,
information systems division is to record logs 38 and trails and securely preserve them as
follows.
    1. Logs are to record histories of access to important information and the operation
         history of users (web access logs, histories of sending/receiving e-mails, etc.).
    2. Trails are to record information other than that in the above logs, including date, user,
         operation terminal, content of operations, and content of transmissions, based on
         established policies.
    3. Logs are to be reviewed on a regular basis. It is advisable to check for non-routine
         work performed by officers and employees, including access to a large number of
         files or to the files that are not relevant to their work. If the case has been confirmed,
         organizations are to strengthen monitoring or take other measures.
    4. It is advisable to take users' privacy into account and obtain agreement from the
         labor union and other parties concerned as to collecting such logs and trails.
    5. In general, it is preferable to notify employees of the fact that user logs and trails are
         preserved, since it is considered effective for deterring internal improprieties.




37
   Records of events occurring in information systems and networks. In these Guidelines, "logs" are logs of
activity taken on a system, and "trails" are collected according to policies determined for monitoring and
auditing.
38
   Consider not only server logs but also client logs*Q&A 10:P69 *Q&A 11:P70 are necessary.

                                                    40
     6.   Logs and trails preservation period is decided by balancing risks and costs. It is
          preferable not to inform the preservation period to insiders for the purpose of
          deterring internal improprieties 39.
     7.   For checking logs and trails it is advisable to take measures including preventions of
          falsification and unauthorized deletion, and restrictions that enable only specified
          system administrators’ accesses. It is preferable to require supervising managers or
          system administrators’ permissions when conducting checks.




39
   Except when necessary to inform it considering the systems development or operations inside
organizations. Information systems division must consider the period for storing logs from various
standpoints, including the importance of the information to be logged, cost, business type, business form,
etc. Relevant laws and regulations include, with respect to the preparation of rules for requesting the
preservation of electromagnetic records of (5) communication history under the partial revision to the Code
of Criminal Procedure, include the following: "A public prosecutor, public prosecutor's assistant officer, or
judicial police officer, when deeming seizure or seizure with demand for recording to be necessary, are to
identify necessary items in electromagnetic records of communication histories recorded for business
purposes, and may request in writing that these not be deleted for a period not to exceed 30 days
(extensible to a period not to exceed 60 days in the case of particular need).".

                                                     41
(18)      Checking of System Administrators' Logs and Trails

      Information systems division is to record and store logs and trails of the access
     history and operation history of system administrators, and, along with logs and trails
     per (17), must have persons other than system administrators periodically perform
     checks of the content of logs and trails of system administrators.

■ What risks are there?

  As system administrators bear considerable privileges, if persons other than system
administrators do not check and monitor work reports by system administrators, it will be
difficult to check the correctness and authenticity of tasks and to detect internal improprieties
by system administrators.

■ Countermeasure points

  Information system logs must log not only failures, but also normal administration and
operation work. Specifically, information systems division is to establish the following, and
record and protect work logs.
    1. Information systems division is to record logs of work concerning information system
        configuration changes and operations 40 , with the content of the work logs
        periodically checked by the supervisors of the information system administrators or
        by supervising administrators41.
    2. When collection of logs and trails can not be performed in systems, the work content
        of system administrators is to be documented, and is to be periodically checked by
        the supervisors of the information system administrators or by supervising
        administrators.




40
   Logs that must be obtained and preserved by system administrators at least include communication logs
for devices (firewall, router, detection system, etc.) closely located to network boundaries, access records of
various servers (web, proxy, database, DHCP, etc.) and records indicating activation of functions specific to
each server (authentication, processing, allocation, etc.).
41
    Companies and organizations which perform internal impropriety countermeasures and which have
internal audit systems in place are to consider methods of checking and operating as audit items for internal
audits.

                                                      42
4-6. Human Management
(19)      Dissemination of Internal Impropriety Countermeasures through Education

     1. Organizations must provide education for all the officers and employees, and must
     disseminate policies concerning the organization's internal impropriety
     countermeasures, procedures for handling important information, etc.

     2. It is advisable to repeat the education periodically. Moreover, organizations must
     review and update the content of the education, and disseminate the updated content
     to insiders.

■ What risks are there?

  If organizations do not provide education for all the officers and employees, officers and
employees are not able to conduct appropriate management. Moreover, if organizations do
review the content of the education, measures toward new threats may not be taken, and
internal improprieties may occur.
  Organizations that do not provide education may be unable to pursue the liability of
persons committing internal improprieties. Moreover, doubt may be cast onto the
management responsibility of the company or organization.
  Note that, with respect to contractual parties to whom important information is presented, if
organizations do not sufficiently inform the officers and employees directly handling said
information of the fact of the important information and the handling of important information,
information may be leaked by the contractual party.

■ Countermeasure points

 Organizations must inform all officers and employees about important information and the
handling of it to raise their understanding and awareness of internal impropriety
countermeasures, and must implement education that enables insiders to conduct
countermeasures.
   1. Organizations are to provide education concerning matters to be followed by
       insiders, the background to these, and so on*Q&A7:P68. It is advisable to repeat the
       education every year so its content is not forgotten.
   2. As evidence of the education having been conducted, organizations are to record
       the fact that participants underwent the education and understood its content.
   3. Organizations are to periodically review and update the content of the education,
       and disseminate the updated content.
   4. It is advisable to conduct the education at appropriate levels and with appropriate
       content based on the privileges and duties of the participants, including position
       (managerial, non-managerial, etc.) and form of contract (employee, temporary worker,
       etc.). It is particularly advisable to provide education aimed at heightening
       consciousness of rules in system administrators.
   5. Division managers or persons in charge continuously collect information from
       outside sources 42 and attend trainings so that they can gain necessary knowledge
       and improve their abilities in response to technical and social changes including
       information communication technology development and emergence of new threats
       or newly enforced laws.



42
   For example, IPA provides the latest information related to information security countermeasures at
http://www.ipa.go.jp/.

                                                    43
(20)    Personnel Procedures for Conclusion of Employment

   To prevent the occurrence of important information leakage or other internal
  improprieties by ex-officers and ex-employees after the conclusion of employment,
  organizations should require said employees to submit written pledges of
  confidentiality as required.

■ What risks are there?

  If organizations do not conclude confidentiality agreements (including written pledges) at
the conclusion of employment, the officer or employee may leave the organization without
recognizing the criticality of the important information they obtained during their work. In this
case, the risk of such important information being disclosed by ex-officers and
ex-employees increases. Furthermore, claims for damages caused by said disclosure will
not be recognized. Organization may conclude no-compete obligation agreements
(including written pledges) as required, but must be careful not to obstruct freedom of
occupational choice.

■ Countermeasure points

  At the conclusion of employment, it is advisable that organizations conclude confidentiality
agreements and no-compete obligation agreements (including the submission of written
pledges) with officers and employees.
   1. Confidentiality agreements must include descriptions which enable objective
        identification of the important information subject to confidentiality.
   2. Any no-compete obligations must be of appropriate scope so as not to obstruct
        freedom of occupational choice.




                                               44
(21)   Return of Information Assets Due to Conclusion of Employment or Conclusion of
       Contract

    At the conclusion of employment or work contracts, organizations must require
  officers and employees and contractors to return or completely delete all information
  assets that they were entrusted to handle. Moreover, organizations must delete
  information system user IDs and privileges granted to hires or contractors.

■ What risks are there?

  If information assets (including important information) for which handling were entrusted
are not returned or deleted, there is a risk of important information being leaked by
ex-employees or ex-contractors. Moreover, if entry passes and loaned devices are not
returned, or information system privileges are not deleted, improper entry into buildings,
unauthorized intrusion into information systems via networks, and improper removal of
information assets from the premises may occur.

■ Countermeasure points

 Organizations must take the following measures at the conclusion of employment or
contracts.
   1. Written pledges or contracts must specify the return of information assets and the
       complete deletion of information assets from contractors' PCs, etc. at the conclusion
       of employment or contracts.
   2. Organizations must confirm the return of all information assets for which handling
       was entrusted, and all entry passes*Q&A8:P69.
   3. Organizations must confirm the deletion of information system user IDs and
       privileges.
   4. It is advisable to obtain conclusive evidence that all important information stored on
       contractors' PCs, etc. has been completely deleted.
   5. As the removal of information and other internal improprieties occur more easily
       immediately prior to conclusion of employment, it is advisable to place PCs, etc.
       under the management of the system administration division, etc. for a set period
       prior to the conclusion of employment. (Examples: Restrictions on scope of access,
       restrictions on USB storage usage, etc.)




                                            45
4-7. Compliance
(22)   Preparation of Legal Proceedings

    Organizations must take into account dismissal or other disciplinary actions for
  insiders committing internal improprieties, prepare rules of employment and other
  internal rules, and make provisions for official disciplinary proceedings.

■ What risks are there?

  If disciplinary actions toward insiders committing internal improprieties are not
incorporated into rules of employment or other internal rules, or if official disciplinary
proceedings are not prepared, disciplinary actions may be rendered invalid by a claim of
improper action from the insider.

■ Countermeasure points

 When taking disciplinary action, it is necessary that items concerning disciplinary actions
and confidentiality obligations be stipulated in internal rules.
  1. Internal rules must note the internal improprieties (e.g., infringement of trade secrets,
       use of personal information for non-allowed purposes) that are subject to disciplinary
       action.
  2. Internal rules must include descriptions which enable objective identification of
       important information for which confidentiality obligations hold.
  3. Organizations must conduct dismissal and other disciplinary action within the
       framework of labor laws, based on internal rules that form the grounds for action.
  4. In order to determine an appropriate disciplinary action, it is necessary to make the
       facts clear through a commission of inquiry, etc.
  5. Organizations must make preparations for civil action and criminal prosecution legal
       proceedings.




                                             46
(23)      Requests for Written Pledges

      In order to make obligations to protect important information understood by officers
     and employees, organizations must request them to submit written pledges of
     confidentiality.

■ What risks are there?

  If officers and employees do not submit written pledges, organizations will be unable to instill
understanding and awareness of the obligations to protect important information. Moreover,
in the event of dismissal or other disciplinary proceedings against officers and employees
committing internal improprieties, disciplinary actions may be rendered invalid by a claim of
improper action from the officers and employees.

■ Countermeasure points

  Organizations must ensure that the important information covered in written pledges of
confidentiality can be identified objectively. Moreover, organizations must request written
pledges of confidentiality at periodic intervals so as to instill awareness of the protection of
important information.
   1. Written pledges of confidentiality must include descriptions which enable objective
       identification of the important information subject to confidentiality.
   2. In order to make obligations to protect important information understood by officers
       and employees, it is advisable that organizations request written pledges of
       confidentiality at periodic intervals in addition to the time of joining the company,
       such as at the time of changes in work duties due to advancement, personal
       relocation, etc., or at the conclusion of projects 43.




43
   If organizations request the submission of written pledges of confidentiality from officers and employees
at their retirement, they may not accede to the request.

                                                    47
4-8. Workplace Environments
(24)    Preparation of Impartial Personnel Evaluations

   It is advisable that personnel division provides impartial and objective personnel and
  performance evaluations. It is also advisable to provide opportunities to explain how
  evaluation is carried out in personnel and performance evaluations. Moreover, it is
  advisable to conduct personnel assignments and reassignments to prepare appropriate
  work environments, as required.

■ What risks are there?

  When officers and employees do not feel impartiality and objectivity in personnel
evaluations and performance evaluations, discontent and dissatisfaction can degrade the
workplace environment, which in turn may induce internal improprieties.
  Moreover, if specific work is left in the hands of an individual without reassignment for long
periods, important information may be handled only by the individual and improperly used.
Moreover, if handling of the same type of important information becomes routine, awareness
of the need for caution in handling the important information may lessen, heightening the
likelihood of incidents occurring through careless mistakes or errors in operation.

■ Countermeasure points

 The personnel division and persons in charge of personnel must take the lead in preparing
evaluation systems for personnel evaluations and performance evaluations. Moreover,
appropriate personnel assignments and relocation must be done.
  1. It is important that personnel division impartially and objectively implement
        promotions, advancement, and organizational pay structure, while maintaining
        sufficient transparency. It is advisable that superiors or division heads provide
        explanations of the content of performance and other evaluations, as required.
  2. As part of preparation for evaluation systems, it is advisable that organization
        encourage officers and employees to participate in education and training for skills
        and knowledge necessary for work.
  3. When specific work is left in the hands of an officer or employee without
        reassignment for long periods, it is advisable to consider personnel relocation to
        avoid such situation.




                                              48
(25)   Promotion of Reasonable Work Environments and Communication

   Organizations should promote environments that maintain good communication
  throughout the workplace, such as by preparing systems for promoting mutual work
  support and environments facilitating consultation, while also preparing suitable work
  environments through means such as normalization of workloads and working hours.

■ What risks are there?

  If organizations do not prepare work environments with suitable workloads and working
hours, specific officers and employees may be overloaded with work, and trying to reduce
their workload and working hours, they may commit internal improprieties. Moreover,
difficulties in executing work duties can heighten discontent in officers and employees and
may lead to internal improprieties. When environments facilitating consultation or good
communication are insufficient, work may continue under a situation of work-related worries
or stress, and internal improprieties may occur.

■ Countermeasure points

 In the preparation of workplace and work environments, the general affairs division and the
persons in charge thereof must take the lead in normalizing workloads and working hours. In
addition, they must prepare environments that facilitate consultation while considering trust
relationships in the workplace, and at the same time, must promote support for work along
with good communication with superiors and colleagues.
   1. When workload is extremely high or working hours are long, including situations in
        which specific individuals cannot take time off or situations of overtime work,
        organizations must set appropriate scopes for workload and working hours.
   2. Organizations must set work within a scope that is not harmful to physical or mental
        health, and must keep workplace environments safe and sanitary.
   3. Superiors and division heads must discern the capabilities of staff members and
        subordinates and, to the extent possible, allot appropriate work content and
        workloads to these.
   4. Superiors and division heads must consider systems and environments for providing
        as much support as possible to members and subordinates who require assistance
        with work and duties.
   5. Organization must construct and maintain good teamwork among staff members,
        with staff members assisting each other with delays or problems on the job.
   6. Organization must create and maintain an environment in which staff members
        engage in active exchange of information on the job and can also engage in
        consultations other than for work.
   7. It is advisable that organizations promote work support and aid by persons.
   8. In order to detect and rectify concerns over work or stress over personal
        relationships, it is advisable that organizations prepare environments that facilitate
        consultation not only with superiors but also with colleagues, and promote
        environments that maintain good communication throughout the workplace.
   9. It is advisable that organizations create environments in the workplace that facilitate
        listening to problems. It is advisable to prepare environments in which when officers
        and employees find it hard to pour out their concern at the workplace (e.g. those
        related to their immediate superior), they can consult a consultation service outside
        their workplace that provides feedback to a big boss so that the situation is improved.
        To make consulters feel safe, organizations may handle concerns with anonymity
        depending on their content, with their feedback provided to a big boss.



                                             49
(26)    Management in Workplace Environments

   It is advisable that organizations or the division in charge restrict independent work
  that is conducted apart from other officers and employees and disallows mutual
  monitoring.

■ What risks are there?

  As independent work involves an environment in which the absence of other employees
disallows mutual monitoring, the likelihood of internal improprieties occurring is high. When
internal improprieties do occur, detection may be delayed and damage may spread.
Moreover, when such independent work is performed, “(24) Preparation of Impartial
Personnel Evaluations” and “(25) Promotion of Reasonable Work Environments and
Communication” may be degraded.

■ Countermeasure points

   1.   As independent work involves an environment in which the likelihood of internal
        improprieties occurring is high, organizations need to check for the necessity of the
        work etc. and prepare procedures to track the work. For each independent work, the
        responsible manager etc. of the division concerned must check if the work really
        needs to be done independently and pre-approve it. Check items for the
        pre-approval are: the reason for "Why the work needs to be done in that period?"
        etc.; period/hours; and contents of the work. It is advisable to consider necessary
        assistance to avoid such independent work.
   2.   Independent work involves the risk of internal improprieties by the individual, so
        organizations need to perform after-the-fact check. Check items for the after-the-fact
        check are: consistency between the pre-approved work contents and the actual work
        contents; whether or not important information is handled during the independent
        work; and contents of modification, etc.




                                             50
4-9. Follow-up Measures
(27)      Preparation of Systems Required for Follow-up Measures

      In order to identify the scope of the effects of internal improprieties, organizations
     must assess the concrete status of incidents and must implement measures to
     minimize damage and prevent the spread of effects. In addition, organizations must
     secure systems for cooperation with parties concerned inside and outside the
     organization, as required.

■ What risks are there?

  Organizations that cannot identify the scope of the effects of internal improprieties may be
unable to take prompt follow-up measures and may be unable to consider legal enforcement
and other responses. Furthermore, when using third-party services (digital forensic 44
analysis, incident response 45 support, etc.) in the investigation or handling of internal
improprieties, organizations that have not made provisions for the necessary information
and means of communication may be unable to receive suitable support.

■ Countermeasure points

 To construct systems required for follow-up measures, organizations must prepare the
following content.
    1. To minimize the damage caused by internal improprieties and prevent the spread of
        effects, organizations must determine in advance the required response procedures
        and reporting procedures. To assess the concrete situation surrounding internal
        improprieties and investigate the scope of effects, organizations must preserve
        verifiable evidence 46 concerning "who did what and when".
    2. In responding to internal improprieties, organizations must cooperate with system
        administrators, persons in charge of incident response (including persons in charge
        of external incident response support), persons in charge of digital forensic analysis
        (including persons in charge of external support), attorneys, and internal auditors.
        Moreover, when receiving services, it is advisable that organizations determine the
        content and methods of communication in advance, so as to enable prompt provision of
        necessary information.
    3. In cases where services are entrusted, organizations must develop systems in
        cooperation with contractors. Also cooperation systems after incidents should be
        specified beforehand in writings such as agreements.
    4. Organizations must prepare systems for responding to cases that involve reporting
        requirements to the competent authorities.
    5. Organizations having business continuity plan (BCP) and going to construct systems
        for internal impropriety countermeasures need to take into account the relationship
        with the BCP.



44
   A series of scientific investigative methods and techniques for conducting preservation of evidence,
investigation, and analysis of electromagnetic records, along with analysis and information collection
concerning falsification, damage, etc. of electronic records, in response to legal disputes, legal action, and
acts such as improper use of computer and networks or obstruction of service.
45
   Follow-up response for the purpose of minimizing damage following information security incidents and
accidents such as malicious attacks, viral infections, and theft of PCs.
46
   See "Documents proving the consistency of evidence preservation (Chain of Custody)" of the Evidence
Preservation Guidelines issued by the Institute of Digital Forensics.

                                                     51
(28)   Consideration of Punishment and Prevention of Recurrence

  Organizations must consider the punishment to be applied to internal perpetrators of
 serious improprieties. Moreover, from the standpoint of preventing recurrence, while
 taking measures to prevent recurrence it is also advisable that organizations provide
 notification within the organization of cases involving internal improprieties.

■ What risks are there?

  When organizations do not consider punishments for the perpetrators of internal
improprieties, or do not take measures to prevent recurrence, similar internal improprieties
may recur. Moreover, from the standpoint of preventing recurrence, when organizations do
not perform internal notification and dissemination of cases involving internal improprieties,
similar internal improprieties may recur.

■ Countermeasure points

 To consider punishment for perpetrators of internal improprieties, and to consider the
prevention of recurrence, organizations must prepare the following content.
   1. To minimize the effects caused by internal improprieties, organizations must
       incorporate internal impropriety countermeasures into required response procedures,
       reporting procedures, and other business continuity management procedures. In
       order to consider punishments for perpetrators of internal improprieties, organizations
       must undertake consideration of legal action together with persons in charge of
       personnel, persons in charge of legal affairs, attorneys, etc., based on content
       established in the preparation of legal proceedings per (22) in these Guidelines.
   2. Organizations must consider and implement measures to prevent the recurrence of
       internal improprieties.
   3. It is advisable that organizations learn from the specific facts of incidents of internal
       improprieties, and, from the standpoint of preventing recurrence, provide notification
       of cases of internal improprieties within the organization, including the actions taken
       against the perpetrators.




                                             52
4-10. Organizational Management
(29)    Preparation of Whistleblower Systems for Internal Improprieties

   Organizations or the division in charge must prepare whistleblower systems for the
  occurrence of incidents suspected of involving internal improprieties. Organizations
  or the division in charge must establish multiple whistleblower contact points to allow
  reports by officers and employees to parties concerned with internal impropriety
  countermeasures (Supervising Manager, etc.) other than their own divisions.
  Organizations or the division in charge must also secure anonymity for
  whistleblowers, as required. Organizations or the division in charge must also provide
  education on the specific usage and disseminate it.

■ What risks are there?

  If organizations or the division in charge do not prepare whistleblower systems for the
occurrence of incidents suspected of involving internal improprieties and do not provide
education on the specific usage, internal whistleblowing will not function, response will be
delayed, and signs of internal improprieties may be overlooked. Moreover, if organizations
or the division in charge do not establish multiple whistleblower contact points for internal
improprieties, then cover-ups may prevent information from reaching (i.e., being reported to)
the Supervising Manager, etc. from divisions where the problems are thought to have
occurred. Moreover, if organizations or the division in charge do not secure anonymity for
whistleblowers, then due to the effects of surrounding human relations, etc., information
thought to concern internal improprieties may not be obtained.

■ Countermeasure points

 With regard to internal impropriety whistleblower systems, organizations or the division in
charge must prepare content such as the following.
 1. Reporting of internal improprieties must include the following information, etc. at a
      minimum: "Contact points (contact information and method)", "Targeted information or
      physical assets", "Time and situation of incident (e.g., improper use, destruction, etc.)",
      "How the incident became known", etc.
 2. Organizations must develop systems stated in (27) to promptly conduct investigations
      in the event inquiries or reports concerning important information are made from
      outside.
 3. Organizations or the division in charge are to provide education on the above systems
     for internal whistleblowing.
 4. It is advisable for organizations or the division in charge to establish whistleblower
     contact points (including hotlines, etc.), in addition to the heads of the divisions to
     which officers and employees belong.
 5. In order to secure anonymity and prevent whistleblowers from suffering disadvantages
     from the act of reporting, organizations or the division in charge are to consider
     establishing anonymous post office boxes and suggestion boxes, or to consider the
     use of third-party organizations.




                                              53
(30)   Implementing Checks Incorporating the Prevention of Internal Improprieties

   Organizations must identify specific internal impropriety countermeasure items from
  the standpoint of preventing and deterring internal improprieties, and must regularly
  and irregularly conduct checks (including internal and other audits). Moreover,
  organizations must report the results of audits, following confirmation by the
  Supervising Manager, to the top manager, and must conduct reviews of
  countermeasures as required.

■ What risks are there?

 If organizations do not conduct periodic and non-periodic checks and audits, including the
monitoring noted under “(1) Clarification of the Responsibilities of the Top Manager”, the
organizations may be unable to confirm the status of internal impropriety countermeasures
or problem points in the organization, and may be unable to conduct and review effective
measures.

■ Countermeasure points

  To conduct checks and audits (including internal and external audits) in terms of prevention
and deterrence of internal improprieties, organizations must make plans considering the
following items and conduct them accordingly. Once they are conducted, organizations must
re-evaluate risks to review countermeasures and resource allocations under top managers’
leaderships.
    1. Organizations must make reference to items which are particularly advisable as
        internal impropriety countermeasures (items thought to be related in cases of
        internal improprieties, etc.), must confirm the implementation status, preparation
        status, etc. of specific countermeasures, and must report to top managers.
    2. Organizations must check matters including whether differing management and
        handling are being applied to similar information, based on the work content of each
        division and dealings with parties concerned.
    3. Organizations must confirm records concerning incidents thought to involve internal
        improprieties and related incidents, and must confirm that these are promptly
        reported following occurrence. Moreover, organizations must confirm whether any
        cases violate management procedures and handling methods for important
        information, and must confirm follow-up remedies, etc.
    4. Internal improprieties countermeasures must be reviewed according to technical and
        social changes including information communication technology development,
        emergence of new threats and newly enforced laws. They should be continuously
        reviewed and improved.




                                             54
Appendix I: Internal Impropriety Case Studies
  Case studies from interviews surveys and case study surveys from the "Survey of
Incidents Due to Improper Activity by Organization Insiders" by the Information-technology
Promotion Agency, Japan and from the committee for the creation of "Guidelines for the
Prevention of Internal Improprieties in Organizations" are presented below.

                                                                                           Items related to
  No                                      Overview
                                                                                          these Guidelines
        A salesperson at a regional financial institution was embezzling funds from      (24) Preparation
        dormant accounts.                                                                of Impartial
        Main cause:                                                                      Personnel
  1     The salesperson was kept in a position without reassignment in order to          Evaluations
        maintain sales performance and no mutual monitoring was in place, which          (26) Management
        created an environment in which internal improprieties were difficult to         in Workplace
        detect.                                                                          Environments
                                                                                         (7) Administrator
        A system administrator in a small company changed settings on the
                                                                                         Access
        president's PC to forward e-mail sent to the president to the account of the
                                                                                         Management
        system administrator, who then read the e-mail.
                                                                                         (19)
        Main cause:
  2                                                                                      Dissemination of
        Only one person in the company was in charge of the system administrator,
                                                                                         Internal
        creating an environment in which internal improprieties were difficult to
                                                                                         Impropriety
        detect. Moreover, this employee may have had low consciousness of the
                                                                                         Countermeasures
        rules required for system administrators.
                                                                                         through Education
        A system administrator employee in a company taken confidential                  (12) Safety
        information from the premises with the intent of working at home, but            Management for
        performed work on a home PC with file-sharing software (Winny) installed,        Network Usage
        resulting in leakage of information.                                             (19)
  3     Main cause:                                                                      Dissemination of
        Confidential information was taken from the premises without informing           Internal
        anyone. The employee may not have fully known the severity of punishment         Impropriety
        for working at home without permission and leaking confidential                  Countermeasures
        information.                                                                     through Education
                                                                                         (9) Asset
        A laptop PC was lost while left for a long period on a piled-up desk.
                                                                                         Management and
        Subsequent investigation revealed that the laptop PC had been sold, with the
                                                                                         Physical
        perpetrator unknown.
  4                                                                                      Protection of
        Main cause:
                                                                                         Information
        Laptop PCs were not managed, and could be taken away by anyone entering
                                                                                         Devices and
        the floor.
                                                                                         Storage Media
        An employee in a company took a CD-ROM containing confidential
        information from the premises, and sold the information. When taking             (9) Asset
        confidential information from the information system, the employee had his       Management and
        subordinate create the CD-ROM containing the confidential information            Physical
  5     through official procedures, explaining to the subordinate that the action was   Protection of
        part of work, and then engaged in cover-up.                                      Information
        Main cause:                                                                      Devices and
        Removal of CD-ROMs containing confidential information from the                  Storage Media
        premises was not managed.




                                                  55
                                                                                    (12) Safety
     A developer in a company took development source code, etc. from the
                                                                                    Management for
     premises by uploading it to external online storage, out of belief that he
                                                                                    Network Usage
     owned the source code he developed and that the code would be useful in
                                                                                    (19)
     other projects.
6                                                                                   Dissemination of
     Main cause:
                                                                                    Internal
     The developer did not recognize that developed items belong to the
                                                                                    Impropriety
     company. Moreover, the company did not restrict the use of external online
                                                                                    Countermeasures
     storage.
                                                                                    through Education

     A system administrator in a company repeatedly took confidential
     information from the premises and sold it. Each time, the employee escalated   (6) Rights
     the severity of the act of removing confidential information from the          Management for
     premises.                                                                      System
     Main cause:                                                                    Administrators
7
     The company was supposed to perform monitoring of system administrators'       (18) Checking of
     operations, but confidential information was repeatedly taken from the         System
     premises due to laxness on the part of the person in charge. Moreover, the     Administrators'
     privileges of system administrators were not distributed and may have been     Logs and Trails
     concentrated in a single person.
                                                                                    (15) Protection of
     A telecommuting employee in a company connected to the company's
                                                                                    Important
     information systems from home via the Internet, and obtained and sold
                                                                                    Information in
     confidential information. As telecommuting makes work difficult to monitor,
                                                                                    Work Outside of
     it more readily facilitates internal improprieties than does an office.
                                                                                    the Organization
8    Main cause:
                                                                                    (17) Recording
     The company did not restrict access to its information systems and
                                                                                    and Storage of
     confidential information via the Internet by telecommuters, etc. Moreover,
                                                                                    Logs and Trails
     the company may not have been monitoring whether information other than
                                                                                    in Information
     that necessary for telecommuting was being accessed.
                                                                                    Systems
                                                                                    (5) User access
                                                                                    Management in
                                                                                    Information
     Upon leaving a company, an employee downloaded a developed item and
                                                                                    Systems
     took it from the premises, with the intent of using it in a new place of
                                                                                    (17) Recording
     employment.
                                                                                    and Storage of
     Main cause:
9                                                                                   Logs and Trails
     There was a lack of awareness that developed items should not be taken
                                                                                    in Information
     from the premises and used at the new place of employment. Moreover,
                                                                                    Systems
     non-routine work performed by officers and employees such as access to a
                                                                                    (20) Personnel
     large number of files was not monitored and no measures were enacted.
                                                                                    Procedures for
                                                                                    Conclusion of
                                                                                    Employment
                                                                                    (21) Return of
     A salesperson in a company, leaving the company due to restructuring,
                                                                                    Information
     changed a PC password without permission, and then claimed forgetfulness
                                                                                    Assets Due to
     in not providing notice of the changed password.
10                                                                                  Conclusion of
     Main cause:
                                                                                    Employment or
     Management rights for the PC were not placed with the company for a set
                                                                                    Conclusion of
     period prior to the conclusion of employment.
                                                                                    Contract




                                              56
                                                                                    (20) Personnel
                                                                                    Procedures for
                                                                                    Conclusion of
     A number of employees in a division of a company, retiring at the same time    Employment
     to form a new company, took customer data (a trade secret) from the            (21) Return of
     premises for use in the new company.                                           Information
11   Main cause:                                                                    Assets Due to
     The employees had poor awareness of the fact that the act of improperly        Conclusion of
     removing trade secrets from the premises and using the information violates    Employment or
     the Unfair Competition Prevention Act.                                         Conclusion of
                                                                                    Contract
                                                                                    (23) Requests for
                                                                                    Written Pledges
                                                                                    (13) Transfer and
                                                                                    Protection of
     An employee of a contracted web site construction and operation company        Important
     sold the customer data of a client company to a competitor, despite knowing    Information
     the improperness of the act. The competitor used the customer data for its     (16)
     sales activities.                                                              Confirmations of
12
     Main cause:                                                                    Contractors
     The company may not have confirmed that the information security               Services
     measures of the contracted web site construction and operating company         (Including when
     were sufficient.                                                               using services
                                                                                    provided by third
                                                                                    parties)
                                                                                    (21) Return of
     An ex-employee of a company manufacturing and selling products used the
                                                                                    Information
     company's design drawings to manufacture and sell similar products at a
                                                                                    Assets Due to
     competing company.
13                                                                                  Conclusion of
     Main cause:
                                                                                    Employment or
     The company did not properly handle the return of important information
                                                                                    Conclusion of
     upon departure of employees.
                                                                                    Contract
                                                                                    (13) Transfer and
                                                                                    Protection of
                                                                                    Important
     Personal information handed over by a company to a maintenance contractor      Information
     was copied and sold by a part-time worker in a subcontracting company.         (16)
     Main cause:                                                                    Confirmations of
14
     The company did not make the important information management systems          Contractors
     of the contractor clear, and did not perform management extending to           Services
     subcontractors.                                                                (Including when
                                                                                    using services
                                                                                    provided by third
                                                                                    parties)
     An ex-employee of a company used a remote access connection service for
     connecting to the company's network via the Internet, and taken confidential   (5) User Access
     information from the company.                                                  Management in
15
     Main cause:                                                                    Information
     The ex-employee's account was not deleted from the remote access               Systems
     connection service.




                                              57
     A teacher in an educational institution used USB storage to take grades and      (15) Protection of
     other student data from the premises. The student data was leaked when the       Important
16   USB storage was stolen.                                                          Information in
     Main cause:                                                                      Work Outside of
     The student data was not encrypted.                                              the Organization
                                                                                      (11) Restrictions
     In an educational institution environment allowing tacit permission for work     on Bringing in
     usage of personal smartphones, an employee's personal smartphone was             and Using
     stolen and the personal information stored was leaked.                           Personal
17
     Main cause:                                                                      Information
     The institution did not set and operate an appropriate scope of usage, tacitly   Devices and
     allowing work usage of personal smartphones.                                     Storage Media for
                                                                                      Work
     An employee in a contracting company providing a banking corporation with
     ATM maintenance and management service illegally obtained customers’
     card information from ATM transaction data. He forged cash cards using this      (6) Rights
     information to withdraw money.                                                   management for
18
     Main cause:                                                                      system
     Privileges were heavily concentrated on the employee who was the project         administrators
     manager and that enabled him to forge the card only by himself. Also mutual
     monitoring system was not sufficient.
                                                                                      (24)Preparation of
                                                                                      Impartial
                                                                                      Personnel
                                                                                      Evaluations
     An ex-employee in a business partner for a company illegally took out the        (17)Recording
     company’s research data and provided it to a foreign corporation he left for.    and Storage of
     Main cause:                                                                      Logs and Trails
     Dissatisfaction with working condition was one of his motives. Use of record     in Information
19
     media must have been restricted and access to important information must         Systems
     have been monitored through recorded access logs, as internal improprieties      (21)Return of
     such as taking out information from premises tend to occur before                Information
     resignation.                                                                     Assets Due to
                                                                                      Conclusion of
                                                                                      Employment or
                                                                                      Conclusion of
                                                                                      Contract




                                               58
                                                                                     (11)Restrictions
                                                                                     on bringing in and
                                                                                     using personal
                                                                                     information
     An employee working for a company which is a group company of a                 devices and
     contractor maintaining and managing customer database improperly                storage media for
     obtained and brought out personal information from the premises for the         work
     purpose of selling.                                                             (16)Confirmations
     Main cause:                                                                     of Contractors
     Bringing personal belongings in the premises was not restricted.                Services
20
     Countermeasures were implemented on business-use PCs to prevent record          (Including when
     media connection, but the countermeasures failed when the latest smart          using services
     phone was connected. The smart phone was accepted as record media and
                                                                                     provided by third
     that allowed the employee to take out data. Also the company did not
                                                                                     parties)
     recognize that the security measures for the contractor’s associate companies
                                                                                     (30)Implementing
     were insufficient.
                                                                                     Checks
                                                                                     Incorporating the
                                                                                     Prevention of
                                                                                     Internal
                                                                                     Improprieties




                                               59
Appendix II: Internal Impropriety Check Sheet
 The internal impropriety check sheet in this appendix is a summary of the countermeasures
presented in Chapter 4 in these Guidelines.


* □: Key person in charge / implementing division 47; [ ]: Divisions confirming support /
implementation aid 48
 No                     Content                                     Check items
■Basic Policies
1-1     Has the top manager formulated “basic
        policies” and disseminated these to officers
        and employees, for the purpose of showing
        within and outside the organization that
        internal impropriety countermeasures are
                                                                 □：Top Manager(CEO)
        the responsibility of the top manager?
        (See Appendix IV for examples of basic
        policies.)

1-2     Has the top manager made necessary
        decision and instruction to secure resources
        for implementing measures based on “basic
        policies”?
                                                                 □：Top Manager(CEO)




2-1     Has the top manager appointed a
        Supervising Manager for internal
        impropriety countermeasures, and is the
        top manager conducting approvals for
        management systems and implementation
        measures?
        (However, if the organization is one in
                                                                 □：Top Manager(CEO)
        which the top manager has a view of the
        entire organization and implements internal
        impropriety countermeasures on his or her
        own, it may not be necessary to construct
        management systems.)

2-2     Has the Supervising Manager constructed
        cross-organizational management systems
        in accordance with the basic principles, and             □: Supervising Manager
        formulated implementation measures?




47
   A division which, from the standpoint of its work content, is deemed appropriate to implement that
countermeasure item in the check sheet.
48
   Divisions with which key person in charge/implementing division should cooperate in establishing and
implementing the countermeasure item.

                                                       60
 No                      Content                                                    Check items
                                                                                        Related divisions
                                                                                                                  Legal
                                                      Immediate      Information      General                  Affairs and
                                                                                                   Personnel
                                                       division        Systems        Affairs                  Intellectual
                                                                                                   Division
                                                                       Division       Division                  Property
                                                                                                                Divisions
■Designation as Confidential
3       Does the organization assess important
        information, assign it rating categories
        according to degree of importance, and set          □
        the scope of insiders allowed to handle the
        information?
4-1     Do creators of important information select
        an established rating category for the
                                                            □
        information, and obtain confirmation of the
        selection from superiors, etc.?
4-2     Are confidentiality marks, etc.
        understandable by insiders displayed on
                                                            □
        electronic documents containing important
        information?
■Designation of Access Rights
5-1     Do persons in charge of administering and
        operating information systems do so with
        procedures established for registration,                            □
        change, deletion, and other settings
        concerning user IDs and access rights?
5-2     Do persons in charge of administering and
        operating information systems promptly
        delete user IDs and access rights that have                         □
        become unnecessary due to transfer or
        retirement?
6       When there are multiple system
        administrators, does the organization
        assign an appropriate scope of rights for
        each system administrator ID and enable
        information system administrators to
                                                            □           [       ]
        monitor each other? In addition, when only
        one person in the organization is in charge
        of the system administrator, does the
        organization monitor the administrator'
        operations through logs etc.?
7       Does the organization perform
        authentication using individual passwords,
        IC cards, etc. for individual users and
                                                        [       ]           □
        system administrators, without using
        shared IDs, shared passwords or shared IC
        cards, etc.?
■Physical Management
8       Does the organization physically protect
        locations where important information is
                                                            □           [       ]       [   ]
        stored, handled, etc. with walls and
        entry/exit management measures?




                                                                61
 No                     Content                                                    Check items
                                                                                       Related divisions
                                                                                                                 Legal
                                                     Immediate      Information      General                  Affairs and
                                                                                                  Personnel
                                                      division        Systems        Affairs                  Intellectual
                                                                                                  Division
                                                                      Division       Division                  Property
                                                                                                               Divisions
9-1    Does the organization manage and protect
       information devices such as PCs and
       portable storage media such as USB                  □           [       ]
       storage to prevent theft, improper removal
       from the premises, etc.?
9-2    When disposing of information devices or
       storage media, does the organization
                                                           □           [       ]
       confirm that important information has
       been completely deleted?
10     When mobile devices and portable storage
       media are taken from the premises, does
       the organization manage the approval,               □           [       ]
       recording, etc. of the removal?


11     Does the organization restrict employees'
       bringing in and using personal mobile           [       ]           □
       devices and storage media for work?
■Technological and Operational Management
12     Does the organization restrict the use of
       file sharing software, SNS, external online
       storage, etc. on its networks, to prevent                           □
       improper removal of important
       information?
13-1   Does the organization manage the transfer
       of important information to contractors or
                                                           □           [       ]
       other parties concerned, at all steps from
       transfer to disposal?
13-2   Does the organization take into account the
       mistaken transfer of important information
       to persons other than the parties concerned
                                                           □           [       ]
       via the Internet or otherwise outside the
       organization, and protect the important
       information using encryption, etc.?
14     Does the organization limit the important
       information that can be used and handled
       outside the organization, and protect               □           [       ]
       important information and information
       devices?
15     Does the organization take into account the
       surrounding environment, network
       environment, etc. when performing work              □           [       ]
       using important information outside the
       organization?
16     Does the organization confirm and agree
       the security measures according to the
                                                           □           [       ]                                 [   ]
       services to be entrusted prior to the
       contract agreement, and make sure whether



                                                               62
 No                       Content                                                  Check items
                                                                                       Related divisions
                                                                                                                 Legal
                                                      Immediate      Information     General                  Affairs and
                                                                                                  Personnel
                                                       division        Systems       Affairs                  Intellectual
                                                                                                  Division
                                                                       Division      Division                  Property
                                                                                                               Divisions
       the security measures are practiced as
       specified in the agreement during the
       contract period?
■Securing Evidence
17     Does the organization safely protect logs
       and trails for a fixed period, including the
                                                        [       ]        □
       history of access to important information
       and users' operation history?
18     Does the organization not only record and
       store logs and trails of the access history,
       operation history, etc. of system
                                                                         □
       administrators, but also have the content of
       these periodically checked by persons other
       than system administrators?
■Human Management
19-1   Does the organization provide education
       for all the officers and employees, and
       disseminate policies concerning the
                                                            □                          [   ]        [   ]
       organization's internal impropriety
       countermeasures, procedures for handling
       important information, etc.?
19-2   Does the organization periodically repeat
       its education, and periodically review and           □                          [   ]        [   ]
       update its content?
20     At the conclusion of employment, does the
       organization require employees to submit
                                                            □                          [   ]        [   ]        [   ]
       written pledges imposing confidentiality
       obligations? (recommended)
21     At the conclusion of officers and
       employees employment and termination of
       work contracts with contractors, does the
       organization have them return or
                                                            □                          [   ]        [   ]        [   ]
       completely delete all information assets
       which were entrusted to handle, and does
       the organization delete their user IDs and
       privileges from information systems?
■Compliance
22     Has the organization prepared rules of
       employment and other internal rules, and
                                                            □                          [   ]        [   ]        [   ]
       made provisions for official disciplinary
       proceedings?
23     In order to make obligations to protect
       important information understood by
       officers and employees, does the                     □                          [   ]        [   ]        [   ]
       organization request them to submit written
       pledges of confidentiality etc.?
■Workplace Environments


                                                                63
No                      Content                                                   Check items
                                                                                      Related divisions
                                                                                                                   Legal
                                                       Immediate    Information     General                     Affairs and
                                                                                                  Personnel
                                                        division      Systems       Affairs                     Intellectual
                                                                                                  Division
                                                                      Division      Division                     Property
                                                                                                                 Divisions
24     Does the organization promote impartial
       and objective personnel and performance
       evaluations as well as provide
                                                                                      [       ]         □
       opportunities to explain how evaluation is
       carried out in personnel and performance
       evaluations? (recommended)
25     Does the organization as a whole promote
       environments that maintain good
       communication throughout the workplace,
       such as by preparing systems for
       promoting mutual work support and
                                                                                          □         [       ]
       environments facilitating consultation,
       while also preparing suitable work
       environments through means such as
       normalization of workloads and working
       hours? (recommended)
26     Does the organization restrict independent
       work apart from other employees in
       environments that disallow mutual
                                                           □                          [       ]     [       ]
       monitoring, and has the organization set
       necessary procedures for prior approval for
       independent work? (recommended)
■Follow-up Measures
27     In order to identify the scope of the effects
       of internal improprieties, organizations
       must assess the concrete status of incidents
       and must implement measures to minimize
       damage and prevent the spread of effects.
                                                           □           [   ]
       In addition, organizations must secure
       systems for cooperation with parties
       concerned inside and outside the
       organization, as required. Does the
       organization do so?
28     Has the organization considered
       punishment for perpetrators of
       international improprieties, and has the
                                                           □           [   ]
       organization considered providing
       notification of cases of internal
       improprieties within the organization?
■Organizational Management
29     Has the organization prepared
       whistleblower systems for the occurrence
       of incidents suspected of involving internal
                                                           □           [   ]
       improprieties, has it established multiple
       points of contact, and does it secure
       anonymity for whistleblowers, as required?




                                                               64
No                    Content                                                   Check items
                                                                                    Related divisions
                                                                                                              Legal
                                                     Immediate    Information     General                  Affairs and
                                                                                               Personnel
                                                      division      Systems       Affairs                  Intellectual
                                                                                               Division
                                                                    Division      Division                  Property
                                                                                                            Divisions
30   Does the organization identify internal
     impropriety countermeasure items,
     regularly and irregularly conduct checks
     (including internal and other audits), report       □           [   ]
     the checked results to the top manager, and
     conduct reviews of countermeasures, as
     required?




                                                             65
Appendix III: Q&A
Q&A for assisting countermeasures (1)
Q-1. I do not know how to formulate basic policies. (4-1 (1)) (4-1(2))
A-1. The basic policies shown in these Guidelines assume the use of existing basic information security
     policies. If necessary, items concerning internal impropriety countermeasures should be added. The
     following are minimum items for the organizations having no basic information security policy.

      In their basic policies, companies should set the following 3 items at the minimum, from the
     standpoints of thoroughly conducting protection and management of important information within
     the company, and of external accountability.
     (1) The top manager shall recognize the need to conduct risk management as a management issue,
         and as a component of this, shall prevent internal improprieties and shall show the importance of
         protecting and managing important information.
     (2) Basic policies shall identify important information that should be protected and managed, and
         shall indicate the business importance of this important information. Important information is the
         information which has considerable effects on the business of the company or group. Examples
         include manufacturing and development information or sales information, including strategic
         information and undisclosed intellectual property. Shared information obtained from parties
         concerned that are obligated to perform management of confidentiality is also included.
     (3) Basic policies shall show implementation systems for the protection and management of
         important information, and while conducting reviews shall show that activities are ongoing.
         Implementation systems are to note systems that should be prepared in implementing internal
         impropriety countermeasures. The minimally responsible person must be indicated. Moreover,
         activities for improving countermeasures on an ongoing basis are to be shown.
     For details, see the examples of basic policies in Appendix V.
     The systems noted in basic policies assume a division into large-scale and small-scale companies,
     each with two types of systems. An overview of systems is described using the figure below.




     In large-scale companies, a system with the top manager as the CEO and the CISO as the
     Supervising Manager (hypothetical example 1), and a system with the CISO as the CEO and the
     information systems division head as the Supervising Manager (hypothetical example 2), are
     assumed. In small-scale companies, a system with the top manager as the CEO and the CISO as the
     Supervising Manager (hypothetical example 3), and a system with the top manager as both CEO and
     Supervising Manager (hypothetical example 4), are assumed.




                                                    66
Q&A for assisting countermeasures (2)
Q-2. I do not know how to categorize important information. (4-1 (1))
A-2. First, information can be divided into two according to whether it is subject to protection.
     Information subject to protection should be managed with the organization setting rules for its
     handling. In actual work, when there is a need to change handling according to differences in the
     degree of importance of information subject to protection, the number of categories for managing
     the information can be increased. However, as too many categories can complicate management,
     about four categories are advisable.


Q&A for assisting countermeasures (3)
Q-3. I do not know what sort of information comes under important information. (4-1 (1))
A-3. Important information varies according to the work content and the information handled by
     divisions. For example, for a sales division this includes customer data and sales information
     restricted to parties concerned, and for a development division, important information may include
     developed items and specifications/design documents. In general, important information can be
     considered to be information that has an effect on the profits of the organization. However, the
     sharing of important information with parties concerned outside the organization is connected to
     profits in some cases, and varied handling and scopes of sharing can be considered depending on the
     work and status of the supervising divisions. Moreover, degree of importance may change by time:
     information with a high degree of importance can become public knowledge after a certain period of
     time.


Q&A for assisting countermeasures (4)
Q-4. I don't know what the special divisions and committees are.(4-1(2))
A-4. They are for example to set up “management committees” supervising handling of important
     information with divisions or managers as officials responsible for supervising handling of
     important information. “Guidelines Targeting Economic and Industrial Sectors Pertaining to the Act
     on the Protection of Personal Information” (2014 revised version) refers to “Establishment of the
     so-called Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) and Establishment of the responsible official for the
     operation and the limitation of operators in the handling of personal data” as preferable means to be
     taken for systematic security control measures.


Q&A for assisting countermeasures (5)
Q-5. I am trying to implement notification systems based on traffic to conduct monitoring, but do not
     know how to set criteria for the traffic to be reported (4-2-2(5)).
A-5. When monitoring through notification systems it is important to set and review the criteria according
     to the systems operations, since necessary notices are not provided if the criteria for notices is too
     lenient, while improprieties can be difficult to detect if notices are frequently made due to too strict
     criteria.




                                                     67
Q&A for assisting countermeasures (6)
Q-6. I do not know how to set user-managed password rules that prevent the use of simple character
     strings. (4-2-2 (7))
A-6. Simple character string passwords mean passwords identical to user IDs, user names or birthdays, or
     using keyboard arrays (such as "123456" or "QWERTYU"). To avoid users setting such simple
     character strings as passwords, organizations should set rules for passwords such as eight or more
     characters, with a mixture of upper-case and lower-case letters.


Q&A for assisting countermeasures (7)
Q-7. I do not know how to strengthen security for physically compartmented areas where important
     information is handled. (4-3 (8))
A-7. Organizations should restrict the persons who can enter physically compartmented areas (company
     grounds, buildings, rooms, etc.) where important information is handled, and should be able to
     identify targeted persons. Organizations should also record workplace or room entry/exit, and
     should appropriately manage and regularly and irregularly check the records.
     It is advisable to install equipment for automatically recording those histories, but when the
     installation or placement of such equipment is difficult, organizations should record workplace or
     room entry/exit history on their own, and then appropriately manage and regularly and irregularly
     check the records. It is important that the workplace or room entry/exit history not be viewable by
     other persons entering or exiting. With regard to IC cards which are used to enter or lock the
     compartmented areas where important information is handled, organizations must consider items
     such as the following.
     (1) Operation and management of keys and IC cards
        • Prohibit the loaning of keys and IC cards among officers and employees and keep records of the
           loaning and return of keys and IC cards under the confirmation of the responsible manager (the
           person in charge of the compartmented area).
        • Use dimple keys and IC cards that are hard to duplicate.
        • When keys and IC cards have become unnecessary for officers or employees due to transfers,
           retirements, etc., make sure that the keys and IC cards are returned.
        • Establish procedures (i.e., create manuals) for the loss of keys and IC cards, along with
           measures that can be taken immediately to invalidate lost keys and IC cards.
        • Carry out regular and irregular (i.e., surprise) checks of key/IC card possession, targeting
           persons to whom keys and IC cards are lent.
        • Not to store spare keys together with information identifying the keys' place of use.
        • Information identifying the place of use of spare keys with a given key number is to be handled
           as important information.
    (2) Confirmation of entry/exit history
        • Carry out regular and irregular checks of entry/exit records (including camera images) and make
           sure that the key operators (the owners of the IC cards) and those who actually entered and left
           the compartmented areas are identical.
        • Carry out regular and irregular checks of entry and exit information obtained through entry/exit
           management to detect unusual behaviors.
    (3) Others
        • Use cameras, etc. to monitor activities within compartmented areas where important
           information is handled, and communicate the fact of the monitoring.
        • Consider installing automatic security systems and other systems so that an intrusion through an
           intentionally-unlocked window, etc. is detected.
        • Establish rules for exemptions including emergency entry or entry of top managers or privileged
           persons, etc. who are in general not expected to enter the restricted areas.



                                                    68
Q&A for assisting countermeasures (8)
Q-8. I do not know how to set procedures for the handling (transfer) of important information. (4-4 (13))
A-8. Procedures for the handling (transfer) of important information, if via a network, differ depending
     on whether e-mail or online storage is used.
     For example, if an organization uses e-mail and may send important information as attachments, the
     organization should establish rules such as always attaching important information in encrypted
     format, and using telephones or other measures other than e-mail when transmitting decryption
     password.
     If the organization uses online storage, it must consider whether to limit the use of online storage to
     only that arranged by the organization. In that case, the organization is to establish rules such as the
     period during which download is possible, and the transfer of passwords when downloading.
     Moreover, when the organization uses an Internet-based online storage service, assuming that the
     service does not allow download by anyone, the organization is to establish rules such as always
     encrypting important information to be uploaded, and never sending the download destination and
     password in the same e-mail message.


Q&A for assisting countermeasures (9)
Q-9. I don’t know the meaning of “organization’s audit through contractors, or audit on their own if
     necessary”. (4-4(16))
A-9. It means one of the two measures that follow. This figure shows case 1 as audit through contractors,
        case 2 as audit on their own if necessary. Procedures are the same for when subcontractors
        contract their services to sub-subcontractors.




Q&A for assisting countermeasures (10)
Q-10. I don’t know what to collect as client logs and how. (4-5(17))
A-10. Collect event logs showing at least users’ operation dates, contents (logons and logouts) and the
        results (failures). Management tools can be used to collect logs for Windows.




                                                     69
Q&A for assisting countermeasures (11)
Q-11. What should I consider when configuring the settings for client logs to address internal
    improprieties? (4-5(17))
A-11. Default log settings for basic software (especially Windows) on client side are not intended to
       record all the operation logs. Thus for Windows clients especially storing important information,
       it is preferable to activate security audits to record almost all the operations.


Q&A for assisting countermeasures (12)
Q-12. I do not know what content to include in education. (4-6 (19))
A-12. In education, organizations should include content that heightens understanding and awareness
     concerning internal impropriety countermeasures, such as the following.
   (1) Describe specific case studies of the effects on the company or organization caused by internal
       improprieties.
   (2) Describe matters that should be followed concerning categories and management methods of
        important information indicated in operation regulations. Examples include rules to prevent faxes,
        printouts, and other documents recording confidential information from being left unattended for
        a long time, and reporting procedures in the event of detection of internal improprieties.
   (3) Describe disciplinary actions in the event of discovery of internal improprieties, based on
        company regulations and other internal rules. As an example, it is effective to describe the content
        of disciplinary actions for internal improprieties based on specific cases.
   (4) Explain that countermeasures are being implemented, while indicating management methods for
        important information. For instance, it is effective to explain the conducted countermeasures
        such as monitoring of e-mail archives, etc.
   (5) To deepen understanding of internal impropriety countermeasures, it is advisable to explain
        related laws and regulations (the Unfair Competition Prevention Act, the Personal Information
        Protection Act, etc.) that form the background to operation regulations.


Q&A for assisting countermeasures (13)
Q-13. What sort of information assets are there for which handling is entrusted, and what sort of
     privileges are granted? (4-6 (21))
A-13. Information assets for which handling is entrusted include the following information and hardware.
     (1) Important information
        • Customer data (including information not generally disclosed, such as information concerning
              purchasing and sales)
        • Information concerning the creation of program source code, design drawings, etc.
        • Information concerning information systems. (information system configuration information,
              etc.)
        * Information concerning undisclosed intellectual property (i.e., patents) held by the company.
    (2) Hardware
        • PCs (including laptop PCs), smartphones loaned by the company, CD-Rs, DVD-Rs, USB
              storage, etc.
    (3) Privileges granted
           • Entry passes
           • User IDs (and associated passwords)
           • Storage repository (safes, wagons, cabinets, etc.) keys




                                                    70
Appendix IV: Relationship with Other Guidelines, etc.
(1) JIS Q 27001 Supplementary Notes A
  These Guidelines indicate measures for organizations to take in protecting information
assets from internal improprieties. Information security management aims to maintain the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information assets that should be protected by the
organization, and contains many related items from the standpoint of protecting information
assets. As such, for the reference of persons reading these Guidelines from the standpoint
of information security management, the management measures of JIS Q 27001
Supplementary Notes A, which relate to the management measures of these Guidelines, are
shown below. Note that as for "Workplace Environments" in these Guidelines, there are no
corresponding JIS Q 27001 management measures.


                                                                    JIS Q 27001:2014 Supplementary Notes A
         Major item                        Item name
                                                                                   Related Items
                               (1) Clarification of the             A.5.1 Management direction for
                               Responsibilities of the Top          information security
                               Manager                              A.7.2 During employment
       Basic Policies          (2) Appointment of the
                               Supervising Manager and
                                                                    A.6.1 Internal organization
                               Construction of
                               Cross-Organization Systems
                                                                    A.8.1 Responsibility for assets
                                                                    A.8.2 Information classification
                               (3) Information Rating Categories
                                                                    A.9.1 Business requirements of access
                Designation
                                                                    control
                    as
                                                                    A.8.1 Responsibility for assets
                Confidential
                               (4) The Application and Labeling     A.8.2 Information classification
                               of Rating Categories                 A.9.1 Business requirements of access
                                                                    control
                                                                    A.8.1 Responsibility for assets
                                                                    A.8.2 Information classification
                               (5) User Access Management in
   Asset                                                            A.9.1 Business requirements of access
                               Information Systems
 Management                                                         control
                                                                    A.9.2 User access management
                                                                    A.8.1 Responsibility for assets
                Designation
                                                                    A.8.2 Information classification
                 of access     (6) Rights Management for System
                                                                    A.9.1 Business requirements of access
                   rights      Administrators
                                                                    control
                                                                    A.9.2 User access management
                                                                    A.8.1 Responsibility for assets
                               (7) Identification and
                                                                    A.8.2 Information classification
                               Authentication of Users in
                                                                    A.9.2 User access management
                               Information Systems
                                                                    A.9.3 Users responsibilities
                                                                    A.11.1 Secure areas
                               (8) Physical Protection and
                                                                    A.12.1 Operation procedures and
                               Entry/Exit Management
                                                                    responsibilities
                               (9) Asset management and
                                                                    A.8.3 Media Handling
                               physical protection of information
    Physical Management                                             A.11.2 Equipment security
                               devices and storage media
                                                                    A.8.3 Media Handling
                               (10) Management of portable
                                                                    A.11.2 Equipment security
                               information devices and storage
                                                                    A.12.1 Operation procedures and
                               media
                                                                    responsibilities




                                                       71
                                                               JIS Q 27001:2014 Supplementary Notes A
      Major item                     Item name
                                                                              Related Items

                         (11) Restrictions on Bringing in      A.6.2 Mobile devices and teleworking
                         and using Personal Information        A.8.3 Media handling
                         Devices and Storage Media for         A.12.1 Operation procedures and
                         Work                                  responsibilities
                                                               A.6.2 Mobile devices and teleworking
                                                               A.12.2 Protection against malware
                         (12) Safety Management for            A.12.6 Technical vulnerability management
                         Network Usage                         A.13.1 Network security management
                                                               A.14.1 Security requirements for
                                                               information systems
                                                               A.8.3 Media handling
                                                               A.13.2 Information transfer
                                                               A.14.1 Security requirements for
                         (13) Transfer and Protection of
                                                               information systems
                         Important Information
                                                               A.10.1 Cryptographic controls
                                                               A.12.1 Operation procedures and
                                                               responsibilities
                                                               A.6.2 Mobile devices and teleworking
                                                               A.8.3 Media handling
                         (14) Protection of Information        A.9.4 Systems and application access
                         Devices and Storage Media taken       control
  Technological and
                         from the Premises                     A.10.1 Cryptographic controls
Operational Management
                                                               A.12.1 Operation procedures and
                                                               responsibilities
                                                               A.6.2 Mobile devices and teleworking
                                                               A.8.3 Media handling
                         (15) Protection of Important
                                                               A.9.4 Systems and application access
                         Information in Work Outside of
                                                               control
                         the Organization
                                                               A.11.2 Equipment security
                                                               A.10.1 Cryptographic controls
                                                               A.7.1 Prior to employment
                                                               A.7.2 During employment
                                                               A.7.3 Termination and change of
                         (16) Confirmations of contractors     employment
                         services (including when using        A.13.1 Network security management
                         services provided by third parties)   A.15.1 Information security on suppliers
                                                               side
                                                               A.15.2 Management for suppliers services
                                                               provision
                         (17) Recording and Storage of         A.12.4 Collecting and monitoring logs
                         Logs and Trails in Information        A.12.7 Things to consider for information
                         Systems                               systems audit
  Securing Evidence
                                                               A.12.4 Collecting and monitoring logs
                         (18) Checking of System
                                                               A.12.7 Things to consider for information
                         Administrators' Logs and Trails
                                                               systems audit
                         (19) Dissemination of Internal
                         Impropriety Countermeasures           A.7.2 During employment
                         through Education
                                                               A.7.3 Termination and change of
                         (20) Personnel Procedures for         employment
 Human Management
                         Conclusion of Employment              A.18.1 Compliance with legal and
                                                               contractual requirements
                         (21) Return of Information Assets     A.8.1 Responsibility for assets
                         Due to Conclusion of Employment       A.18.1 Compliance with legal and
                         or Conclusion of Contract             contractual requirements




                                                 72
                                                                 JIS Q 27001:2014 Supplementary Notes A
       Major item                       Item name
                                                                                Related Items
                                                                 A.7.1 Prior to employment
                                                                 A.7.2 During employment
                            (22) Preparation of Legal            A.7.3 Termination and change of
                            Proceedings                          employment
                                                                 A.18.1 Compliance with legal and
                                                                 contractual requirements
       Compliance
                                                                 A.7.1 Prior to employment
                                                                 A.7.3 Termination and change of
                                                                 employment
                            (23) Requests for Written Pledges
                                                                 A.13.2 Information transfer
                                                                 A.18.1 Compliance with legal and
                                                                 contractual requirements
                            (24) Preparation of Impartial
                                                                                     －
                            Personnel Evaluations

                            (25) Promotion of Reasonable
 Workplace Environments     Work Environments and                                    －
                            Communication

                            (26) Management in Workplace
                                                                                     －
                            Environments
                                                                 A.6.1 Internal organization
                                                                 A.15.1 Information security on suppliers
                            (27) Preparation of Systems          side
                            Required for Follow-up Measures      A.16.1 Management of information
   Follow-up measures                                            security incidents and improvements
                                                                 A.17.1 Information security continuity
                                                                 A.7.2 During employment
                            (28) Consideration of Punishment
                                                                 A.16.1 Management of information
                            and Prevention of Recurrence
                                                                 security incidents and improvements
                                                                 A.7.2 During employment
                            (29) Preparation of Whistleblower
                                                                 A.16.1 Management of information
                            Systems for Internal Improprieties
                                                                 security incidents and improvements
                                                                 A.5.1 Management direction for
                                                                 information security
Organizational management                                        A.12.6 Technical vulnerability management
                            (30) Implementing Checks             A.12.7 Things to consider for information
                            Incorporating the Prevention of      system audit
                            Internal Improprieties               A.16.1 Management of information
                                                                 security incidents and improvements
                                                                 A.17.1 Information security continuity
                                                                 A.18.2 Information security review




                                                    73
 (2) Trade Secret Management Guidelines
  Management of Trade Secrets specifies minimum required countermeasures for securing
protection such as injunctions under the Unfair Competition Prevention Act. Comprehensive
countermeasures to prevent and address leakages will be separately shown in Trade
Secrets Protection Manual (tentative).

 (3) The Guidelines for Economic and Industrial Sectors Concerning the Act on the
Protection of Personal Information
   The Guidelines for Economic and Industrial Sectors Concerning the Act on the Protection
of Personal Information indicate necessary and appropriate safety management methods
required by the Act on the Protection of Personal Information. The following are
countermeasure items in this guideline related to “Matters to be taken” in Security Control
Measures (related to Article 20 of the Act), Supervision of Workers (related to Article 21 of
the Act) and Supervision of Trustees (related to Article 22 of the Act) for this guideline’s
readers considering personal information protection. With regard to the improper removal of
personal information from the premises by employees, the "Workplace Environments"
section from these Guidelines offers items not found in the Guidelines for Economic and
Industrial Sectors Concerning the Act on the Protection of Personal Information. Referring to
"Points for Countermeasures" under "Workplace Environments" should be of aid in
strengthening measures against the improper removal of personal information from the
premises.


  Security control measures (related to Article 20 of
                                                                               Related items
                        the Act)
                                                             (1) Clarification of the Responsibilities of the Top
                                                             Manager
              ① Preparing the organization structure to
                                                             (2) Appointment of the Supervising Manager
                take security control measures for            and Construction of Cross-Organization Systems
                personal data                                (27) Preparation of Systems Required for
                                                             Follow-up Measures
              ② Preparing the regulations, etc. which
                provides security control measures for                               ―
 Systematic     personal data and operating in
  security      accordance with the regulations, etc.
   control    ③ Preparing the means by which the status
  measures      of handling personal data can be looked                              ―
                through
              ④ Assessing, reviewing, and improving the
                                                             (30) Implementing Checks Incorporating the
                security control measures for personal
                                                             Prevention of Internal Improprieties
                data
                                                             (27) Preparation of Systems Required for
                                                             Follow-up Measures
              ⑤ Responding to accident or violation
                                                             (28) Consideration of Punishment and
                                                              Prevention of Recurrence
              ① Concluding the nondisclosure agreement
                with workers when signing the
                employment contract and concluding the
   Human        nondisclosure agreement between an           (23) Requests for Written Pledges
  security      entruster and trustee in the entrustment
   control      contract, etc. (including the contract of
  measures      supply of temporary laborer)
              ② Implementing familiarization of workers
                                                             (19) Dissemination of Internal         Impropriety
                with internal regulations, etc. as well as
                                                             Countermeasures through Education
                education and training of them


                                                      74
 Security control measures (related to Article 20 of
                                                                                  Related items
                          the Act)
               ① Implementing the control for entering
 Physical      and leaving a building (room)                    (8) Physical protection and entry/exit management
 security
               ② Preventing theft, etc.                         (9) Asset management and physical protection of
  control
               ③ Physically protecting equipment and            information devices and storage media
 measures
               devices, etc.
               ① Identification and authentication for          (7) Identification and authentication of users in
                 access to personal data                        information systems

               ② Control of access to personal data             (5) User access management in information
                                                                systems
               ③ Management of authority to access
                                                                (6) Rights management for system administrators
               personal data
                                                                (17) Recording and Storage of Logs and Trails in
                                                                Information Systems
               ④ Record of access to personal data
                                                                (18) Checking of System Administrators' Logs and
                                                                Trails

               ⑤ Countermeasures against unauthorized
 Technical     software regarding an information system         (12) Safety management for network usage
  security     handling personal data
  control
  measure
                                                                (13) Transfer and Protection of Important
                                                                Information
               ⑥ Measures when transferring and                 (14) Protection of Information Devices and
               transmitting personal data                       Storage Media taken from the Premises
                                                                (15) Protection of Important Information in Work
                                                                Outside of the Organization

               ⑦ Measures when confirming the operation
                                                                                         ―
                 of information system handling personal
                                                                (17) Recording and Storage of Logs and Trails in
               ⑧ Monitoring an information system               Information Systems
                 handling personal data                         (18) Checking of System Administrators' Logs and
                                                                Trails


 Supervision of Worker (related to Article 21 of the Act)                         Related items
An entity handling personal information, in order to make
a worker observe the security control measures based on       (8) Physical protection and entry/exit management
Article 20 of the Act, must exercise necessary and            (17) Recording and Storage of Logs and Trails in
appropriate supervision over the worker (e.g. monitoring      Information Systems
of employees).


Supervision of Trustees (related to Article 22 of the Act)                        Related items
① Selection of trustees
                                                              (16) Confirmations of Contractors Services
② Conclusion of entrustment contract                          (Including when using services provided by third
③ Comprehension of the state of handling of personal          parties)
data by the trustee




                                                         75
Appendix V: Examples of Basic Policies
Examples of basic policies are indicated below. Add to and modify these for use as required.
Examples of Basic Policies
  1. Significance of internal impropriety countermeasures
     These basic policies (hereinafter "these Policies") are hereby established for the purpose of
  protecting important information and information systems handled by ○○○ (e.g. IPA) (hereinafter
  "the Organization") from threats by internal improprieties, and for the purpose of establishing
  necessary items for safely making use of these items in business. From here out the Organization
  will consider internal impropriety countermeasures an important issue for management, and will
  undertake these.

  2. Protection of important information
     These Policies designate ○○○, △△△, and □□□ (e.g. customer data) as important information to
  be protected by the Organization.
     • ○○○ is ....
     • □□□ is ....
     • □□□ is ....
     • (Example: To protect the advantages of products with respect to competitors, development
        information must not be leaked from important manufacturing contractors.)
     The Organization takes appropriate measures for this important information according to work
  situations. The organization makes all officers and employees aware of implementation of these
  measures.

  3. Implementation Systems
     The Organization sets forth roles and responsibilities in order to establish systems of
  organizational countermeasures for internal improprieties.
     • CEO···○○○ (e.g. president or other management team representative)
          The CEO conducting decision-making concerning internal impropriety
          countermeasures.
     • Supervising Manager···・□□□ (e.g. president or other management team representative)
          The person responsible for deciding important matters concerning internal impropriety
          countermeasures, conducting checks and reviews of countermeasure status, and
          conducting checks of countermeasures and status when internal improprieties occur.
          * Note: ○○○ and □□□ may be identical.

  3-1. Monitoring by the CEO
     The CEO sets policies for internal impropriety countermeasures, and receives and evaluates
  periodic reports on those policies from the Supervising Manager on an ongoing basis. The CEO
  also reviews implementation systems and policies as necessary.

  3-2. Countermeasure implementation and reporting by the Supervising Manager
    The Supervising Manager drafts specific measures based on the CEO's policies, and
  periodically reports to the CEO on implementation status.

  4. Review of basic policies
     In order to maintain effective and efficient internal impropriety countermeasures, these Policies
  are to be periodically reviewed and revised as necessary.




                                                 76
   Appendix VI: Five basic policies and twenty-five classifications to
   prevent internal improprieties
    The following shows five basic policies and twenty-five classifications to prevent internal improprieties
   based on situational crime prevention, and examples of respective countermeasures as well as related
   countermeasure items in this guideline. “Major countermeasure items” indicate numbers corresponding to
   this guideline’s countermeasure items.
     Source: Five categories and twenty-five classifications are created by IPA, based on page 191 of
   Environmental Criminology and Crime Analysis (Social Security Research Foundation).
Basic 5 policies and 25 classifications                    Countermeasure examples※                          Major items
Make crimes difficult (make harder to attempt): Strength countermeasures to make criminal activities difficult to conduct.
   Strength countermeasures                    Access control, password policy setting, revocation of resignees’     (5)(6)(7)(9)
                                               IDs, fixing PCs with security wires                                   (14)(21)
   Restrict
                                               Restriction of outsiders entrance, entrance/exit control              (8)
   entering/exiting    facilities
                                               Checks for taking out of laptop PCs, etc., monitoring e-mails and
   Check at exit points                                                                                              (8)(10)(17)(18)
                                               networks
   Block criminals                             Restriction of entrance/exit based on physical levels                 (8)
                                               Prohibition against unauthorized bringing-in of PCs/USB
   Restrict information        devices   and
                                               storages, Restriction of uses of SNSs, uses of wireless LANs in       (11)(12)(15)
   networks
                                               hotels and public wireless LANs
Raise risks to be caught (detected if committed): Strength management and surveillance to raise risks to be caught.
   Strength monitoring                         Monitoring of access logs, working environment with multiple
                                                                                                                     (6)(8)(9)(10)
                                               workers, information devices inventory, mobile devices
                                                                                                                     (17)(18)(30)
                                               management, monitoring of entrance/exit records
   Support natural surveillance                Development of reporting system                                       (29)
                                               ID management, Removal of shared accounts, property
   Reduce anonymity                                                                                                  (7)(9)(10)
                                               management based on ledgers
   Implement operational managers              Restriction of one-man works                                          (26)
                                               Setting up of surveillance cameras, Implementation of mechanical
   Strength physical surveillance system                                                                             (8)
                                               security systems
Reduce rewards from crimes (not worth doing): Hide or remove targets, or make it unprofitable to prevent crimes.
   Hide targets                                Authorization of access rights, mobile devices storage with locks,
                                                                                                                     (5)(6)(9)(15)
    (Unknown whereabouts)                      application of privacy protection films
   Eliminate targets                           Complete data deletion, physical destruction of record media, etc.,
                                                                                                                     (4)(9)(13)(21)
   (Eradicate existences)                      disposal /deletion of information provided to persons involved
   Specify properties                          Property management for information devices and record media          (9)
   Decimate the market                         Immediate reporting to police, (compliance to legal systems)          (27)
   Make it unprofitable                        Encryption of electronic files, hard disks, telecommunications        (12)(13)(14)(15)
Reduce seduction of crimes (not to motivate): Deter crimes by dampening enthusiasm to commit crimes.
   Reduce discontent or stress                 Promotion of impartial personnel evaluations, appropriate
                                                                                                                     (24)(25)
                                               working environment, smooth communication
   Avoid conflict                              Promotion of impartial personnel evaluations, appropriate
                                                                                                                     (24)(25) (29)
                                               working environment, smooth communication
   Control emotions                            Promotion of impartial personnel evaluations, appropriate
                                                                                                                     (24)(25)
                                               working environment, smooth communication
   Mitigate pressure                           Promotion of impartial personnel evaluations, appropriate
                                                                                                                     (25)
   from co-workers                             working environment, smooth communication
                                               Recurrence prevention measures (Being careful to disclose the
   Block copycat crimes                                                                                              (28)
                                               ways of incidents)
Not allow justification of crimes (not allow to excuse): Get rid of reasonings for criminals’ self-justification of their
activities.
   Decide rules                                Development of basic policies, management and operation               (1)(2)(16)(20)
                                               methods, services contracts, employment regulations                   (22)(27)
                                               Posting of basic policies inside and outside organizations,
   Post instructions                                                                                                 (1)(2)(19)
                                               education about the policies for employees
   Appeal to conscience                        Indication of management levels, signing of pledges, posters for      (3)(4)(11)(19)
                                               ban on bringing in personal devices                                   (20)(23)
   Support compliance                          Education of compliance items and related laws                        (19)(22)(23)
                                               (ban on drinking alcohol in workplaces, restriction of alcohol
   Regulate drug, alcohol                                                                                                         -
                                               when holding important information)
   ※Bracketed countermeasure examples are examples not specified in this guideline.



                                                                  77
Appendix VII: Countermeasures Classification

（１）Countermeasures for each environment

   Countermeasures to be considered are shown here according to each environment (use
of information devices and networks) in which a company or an organization is 49.
    ①Countermeasures any and all organizations using any information device or network
       environment must consider.
    ②Countermeasures to be considered when organizations do not have networks but
       information devices, though external connections such as e-mail services provided by
       telecommunication operators are available.
    ③Countermeasures to be considered when internal networks and external connections
       are both available in the organizations.

     ①Countermeasures any and all organizations must consider
                     Major item                                                Item name
                                                    (1)Clarification of the Responsibilities of the Top Manager
 4-1.Basic Policies (Responsibilities of the
 Top Manager and Governance)                        (2)Appointment of the Supervising Manager and Construction of
                                                    Cross-Organization Systems
 4-2.Asset Management (Designation as               (3)Information rating categories
 Confidential, Designation of Access
 Privileges, Access Administration, etc.)           (4)The application and labeling of rating categories
 4-2-1.Designation as Confidential
 4-3.Physical Management                            (8)Physical protection and entry/exit management
 4-4.Technological and operational                  (13)Transfer and Protection of Important Information※1
 management                                         (16)Confirmations of Contractors Services (Including when
                                                         using services provided by third parties)※2
 4-6.Human Management                               (19)Dissemination of Internal Impropriety Countermeasures
                                                    through Education
                                                    (20)Personnel Procedures for Conclusion of Employment
                                                    (21)Return of Information Assets Due to Conclusion of
                                                          Employment or Conclusion of Contract
 4-7.Compliance                                     (22)Preparation of Legal Proceedings
                                                    (23)Requests for Written Pledges
 4-8.Workplace Environments                         (24)Preparation of Impartial Personnel Evaluation
                                                    (25)Promotion of Reasonable Work Environments and
                                                          Communication
                                                    (26)Management in Workplace Environments
 4-9.Follow-up measures                             (27)Preparation of Systems Required for Follow-up Measures
                                                    (28)Consideration of Punishment and Prevention of Recurrence
 4-10.Organizational management                     (29)Preparation of Whistleblower Systems for Internal
                                                    Improprieties
                                                    (30)Implementing Checks Incorporating the Prevention of
                                                    Internal Improprieties
     ※1 Except for “Countermeasure points 3    (via the internet)”.
     ※2 Except for “Countermeasure points 5 (using cloud services)”.




49
   Since this guideline aims at security measures utilizing information systems, it can only be used as
reference for countermeasures of organizations without information devices or networks.

                                                           78
②In cases organizations have information devices
      Major item                                               Item name
4-3.Physical             (9)Asset management and physical protection of information devices and storage
Management               media
                         (10)Management of portable information devices and storage media
                         (11)Restrictions on bringing in and using personal information devices and storage
                         media for work
4-4.Technological and    (12)Safety management for network usage
operational              (14)Protection of Information Devices and Storage Media taken from the Premises
management
                         (15)Protection of Important Information in Work Outside of the Organization



③In cases organizations have internal networks
      Major item                                              Item name
4-2-2.Designation of     (5)User access management in information systems
access rights            (6)Rights management for system administrators
                         (7)Identification and authentication of users in information systems
4-4.Technological and    (12)Safety management for network usage
operational              (13)Transfer and Protection of Important Information※1
management
                         (16)Confirmations of Contractors Services (Including when using services provided
                               by third parties)※2
4-5.Securing Evidence    (17)Recording and Storage of Logs and Trails in Information Systems
                         (18)Checking of System Administrators' Logs and Trails
※1 “Countermeasure points” 3 (via the internet)
※2 “Countermeasure points” 5 (using cloud services)




                                                      79
（２）Countermeasures for each type of impropriety

  Countermeasures to be considered for each type of impropriety are shown here. This
includes countermeasures related to early detection and actions after incidents.
  ①Basic countermeasures organizations must consider
  ②Countermeasures to be considered for each type of impropriety
  ③Countermeasures for reading signs and early detection of improprieties
  ④Countermeasures on the occurrence of internal improprieties


  ①Basic Policies
             Risk factor                 Countermeasure                               Item name
 Employees cannot tell whether       ①Identification of          (3)Information rating categories
 the information is important or     important information       (4)The application and labeling of rating
 not                                                             categories
 Cross- organizational               ②Cross-organizational       (1)Clarification of the Responsibilities of the Top
 management system is not            operations led by top       Manager
 developed                           managers                    (2)Appointment of the Supervising Manager and
 Countermeasures are not                                         Construction of Cross-Organization Systems
 refined or reviewed for new                                     (30)Implementing Checks Incorporating the
 threats or laws                                                 Prevention of Internal Improprieties
 Easy to enter floors where          ③Physical management        (8)Physical protection and entry/exit management
 important information is stored                                 (9)Asset management and physical protection of
 Enter/exit records are not                                      information devices and storage media
 collected to identify individuals
 Inventory of information
 devices are not checked
 More access privileges than         ④Appropriate access         (5)User access management in information
 needed for works are                privilege control           systems
 authorized                                                      (6)Rights management for system administrators
 Operation histories (logs) are      ⑤Periodic monitoring        (17)Recording and Storage of Logs and Trails in
 not collected                       and auditing of operation   Information Systems
 Collected logs are not              histories                   (18)Checking of System Administrators' Logs
 periodically audited                                            and Trails
 Officers and employees are not      ⑥Education to fully         (19)Dissemination of Internal Impropriety
 familiarized with internal rules    inform officers and         Countermeasures through Education
 including handling of important     employees
 information
 Officers and employees do not
 know internal management
 systems such as logs
 monitoring and disciplinary
 actions against improprieties
 Officers and employees do not       ⑦Instillation of            (23)Requests for Written Pledges
 understand that they are            compliance consciousness
 required to protect important
 information




                                                         80
  ②Countermeasures for each type of impropriety
     a. Information leakage upon resignation
          Risk factor                  Countermeasure                             Item name
Officers and employees            ①Strengthening              (10)Management of portable information devices
(including expected resignees)    monitoring of expected      and storage media
are not monitored                 resignees                   (17)Recording and Storage of Logs and Trails in
Access to important                                           Information Systems
information is not restricted                                 (21)Return of Information Assets Due to
                                                              Conclusion of Employment or Conclusion of
                                                              Contract
Entrance admission cards and      ②Preparation of             (20)Personnel Procedures for Conclusion of
accounts obtained during          resignation procedures      Employment
employments are remain                                        (21)Return of Information Assets Due to
useable                                                       Conclusion of Employment or Conclusion of
Trade secret protection                                       Contract
measures or non-compete
actions after resignations are
not prepared


     b. Improprieties committed by system administrators
           Risk factor                 Countermeasure                               Item name
Privileges are concentrated       ①Appropriate privilege      (6)Rights management for system administrators
Privileges are authorized to      management                  (7)Identification and authentication of users in
more employees than required      (minimization and           information systems
Uses of privileges are not        decentralization of
restricted                        privileges, mutual
System administrators who         monitoring)
accessed important
information cannot be
identified
System administrators are not     ②Supervision of system      (18)Checking of System Administrators' Logs and
supervised                        administrators              Trails


     c. Information leakage from contractors
          Risk factor                  Countermeasure                              Item name
Contractors operation systems     ①Contractors                (2)Appointment of the Supervising Manager and
and security measures are not     management for handling     Construction of Cross-Organization Systems
checked before and during         of important information    (16)Confirmations of Contractors Services
contract periods                                              (Including when using services provided by third
Necessary items for security      ②Incorporation of           parties)
management of important           security management         (27)Preparation of Systems Required for Follow-up
information are not included in   items into contracts        Measures
contracts※
                                  ③Protection for delivery    (13)Transfer and Protection of Important
Delivery, disposal and deletion
                                  of important information    Information
procedures for important
                                                              (21)Return of Information Assets Due to Conclusion
information are not defined
                                                              of Employment or Conclusion of Contract
 ※ including when using cloud services.




                                                         81
     d. Improprieties induced by working environment
             Risk factor                  Countermeasure                            Item name
Employees are not satisfied with       ①Impartial personal      (24)Preparation of Impartial Personnel Evaluations
their personal evaluations and have    evaluation               (25)Promotion of Reasonable Work Environments
frustrations                                                    and Communication
Specific works are left in the hands   ②Appropriate             (26)Management in Workplace Environments
of specific employees for long         working environment
periods
Specific employees are overloaded
with works
Having no one to talk about work       ③Good
problems and being isolated            communication
Most woks are done without other
persons’ involvement

     e. Improprieties caused by imperfect enforcement of rules
            Risk factor                   Countermeasure                            Item name
Officers and employees are not         ①Education to fully      (19)Dissemination of Internal Impropriety
familiarized with internal rules       inform officers and      Countermeasures through Education
including handling of important        employees
information
Personally owned devices               ②Information             (10)Management of portable information devices
including smart phones and USB         leakage                  and storage media
storages are not restricted to be      countermeasures          (11)Restrictions on bringing in and using personal
brought in or used for works                                    information devices and storage media for work
Rules are not clearly defined
Unauthorized applications or                                    (12)Safety management for network usage
SNSs are not restricted to be used
Countermeasures are not                                         (14)Protection of Information Devices and Storage
implemented for possible                                        Media taken from the Premises
information leakage to third                                    (15)Protection of Important Information in Work
parties                                                         Outside of the Organization


  ③Early Detection
            Risk factor                   Countermeasure                             Item name
Having no idea where to report         ①Implementation of       (29)Preparation of Whistleblower Systems for
suspicious activities                  reporting systems        Internal Improprieties
Logs are not periodically audited      ②Periodic monitoring     (17)Recording and Storage of Logs and Trails in
                                       and auditing of          Information Systems
                                       operation histories      (18)Checking of System Administrators' Logs and
                                                                Trails

  ④Follow-up Measures
            Risk factor                   Countermeasures                           Item name
Having no idea of how to address       ①Preparation of          (27)Preparation of Systems Required for Follow-up
internal improprieties                 acting and reporting     Measures
In need of minimizing damages on       procedures
the organization, customers and
clients
                                       ②Consideration of
                                                                (22)Preparation of Legal Proceedings
In need of preventing recurrences      punishments and
                                                                (28)Consideration of Punishment and Prevention of
of internal improprieties              preventive actions for
                                                                Recurrence
                                       recurrence

                                                         82
■ Revision history (A Japanese version)
・Ver. 1.0 (March 25, 2013)
・Ver. 2.0 (September 26, 2014)
  Updated countermeasure items, etc. based on case studies
・Ver. 3.0 (March 2015)
  Updated based on users requests and relevant parts corresponding to revised
  standards/policies




                                          83
Guidelines for the Prevention of
Internal Improprieties in Organizations
Ver3.0
     （May 2015）

Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan
16th Floor, Bunkyo Green Court, 2-28-8,
Hon-Komagome, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-6591, Japan
URL : http://www.ipa.go.jp
E-Mail : isec-economics@ipa.go.jp
